- # Daily Log
	- **[15:29]** Today is All Saints Day.
	- **[15:31]**  How we collect ideas that interest us?
		- When I was young, I'm what they call "bookworm." When I heard about it, I think it's a worm who eat real books for breakfast, literally.
			- Now I know why. I remember my Auntie, let's call her "Mama Cosing," scolded me when he saw me picked up a newspaper clip lying on the ground and read its contents. It was almost dark, past 6 o' clock in the afternoon.
			- I still remember what she told me, "*You ***!, don't read while it's already dark, your eyes will suffer in the long run."*
		- But I still love reading until now, but it is no longer in the dark because my computer screen is not.
		- Over the course of many years, I write ideas on a real paper on my actual journal notebook but since the advent of digital, I used EverNotes and then Google Keep.
		- That's when I realized that I can use other note-taking app that can have "one-single source of truth." What this means is that when I have a block similar to this, I can link this note to other block or page anywhere and I can update this as a single source of information. In other words, a single block linking to different parts of the pages or journals.
		  id:: 6360ccd0-32c0-4a46-8496-4a67db205cc9
		- That's where bi-drectional linking comes in.
		- > NOTE: I wrote this on my laptop and literally within seconds it is uploaded to this  github page. It does not, however, update the static page instantly due to rate limiting of posts restricted by github, so expect a few more seconds or minutes to show up.
		- **[15:44]** Again, I just write and automatically post this every time, and it's not being reviewed because I don't have a content editor. You may of course [help me with this]([[Grammar Nazi]]).
			- If you see like this  **[15:44]**, it's a timestamp when I typed this particular block.
		- **[17:00]** updated git-auto to push every 15 seconds.