- **[19:16]** Reading our [[assignment]] for [[review/Criminal Law]]: Art 244 - 266-A. While reading, maybe apilan sad ug sabot ug digest.
	- ### Art. 244 RPC
		- {{embed ((6518ffe6-0a97-49f2-b7d8-eed4b691bae3))}}
		- *Who is liable under this article?* Any public officer.
		- *What is the offense?* Nominating or appointing any person to any public office.
			- **Reason:** The person appointed or nominated lacks legal qualification to office.
			-
	- ### CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS
		- ((6518ffe6-0bb9-430c-baf0-7aff85ac51b8))
		- {{embed ((88168e46-7691-4bcd-9511-82465f64a4a7))}}
	- ### Art. 245 RPC
		- {{embed ((6518ffe6-951e-40f3-9a66-70f22586feb8))}}
		- Offended party: any woman.
		- Offender: any public officer.
		- mere act of soliciting/asking
			- delicious mischief
			- DILI pasudlon sa chamber kay laing ang sabot.
		- {{embed ((6518ffe6-d897-423d-a2bb-4ed6439dc13e))}}
			- Jail warden is head sa jail equiv. sa police kay colonel.
			- **Elements**
				- offender is a public officer
				- he solicits or makes immoral or indecent advances to a woman
				- that such woman be
					- 1) interested in matters pending before the offender for decision to with respect to which he is required to submit a report to consult with superior officer; or
					- 2) under the custody of the offender who is a warden or other public officer directly charged with the care and custody of prisoners or persons under arrest; or
					- 3) the wife, daughter, sister or relative within the same degree by affinity of the person in the custody of the offender.
- **[17:13]** Made one [case digest](https://github.com/cliffordx/MVLopez-FULL-CASES/blob/main/2021/CASE%20DIGESTS/Partido_Demokratiko_Pilipino-Lakas_ng_Bayan.md) for PDP v. COMELEC, **G.R. No. 225152. October 5, 2021** [(link)](https://github.com/cliffordx/MVLopez-FULL-CASES/blob/main/2021/CASE%20DIGESTS/Partido_Demokratiko_Pilipino-Lakas_ng_Bayan.md) or [here]([[PDP v. COMELEC (2021)]])
- **[11:26]** Uploaded another [episode on Spotify](https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/cliffordx/episodes/CASE-READING--DIGEST-Midway-Maritime--Technological-Foundation--Inc---v--Marissa-E--Castro--GR-No--189061--August-6--2014-e2a41n2): A case by *Midway Maritime & Technological Foundation, Inc., v. Marissa E. Castro*, GR No. 189061, August 6, 2014.
  collapsed:: true
	- <iframe src="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/cliffordx/embed/episodes/CASE-READING--DIGEST-Midway-Maritime--Technological-Foundation--Inc---v--Marissa-E--Castro--GR-No--189061--August-6--2014-e2a41n2" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
- **[11:09]** To date, there are [159 cases](https://github.com/cliffordx/MVLopez-FULL-CASES) that were decided by Justice M.V. Lopez that need to be digested. If I aim to complete one case digest per day, it would take me 159 days to finish. However, the actual time required could be less or more than 159 days depending on my daily pace. I may be able to complete more than one case digest per day, which would allow me to finish in less than 159 days.
  collapsed:: true
	- Alternatively, there may be days where I am unable to complete even a single case digest, which would extend the overall time needed beyond 159 days. The final number of days will depend on how many case digests I am able to complete on average each working day.
		- If my 159 days is my benchmark, that would equivalent to approximately five (5) months and 9 days. Is this doable given that I  am in my fourth year review? Is this PABUG-AT lang sa study load?
		- Let's see…