title:: NIRC/TITLE_VIII
icon:: 龎

- # REMEDIES
- ## CHAPTER I - REMEDIES IN GENERAL
  collapsed:: true
	- **SEC. 202. _Final Deed to Purchaser_.** - In case the taxpayer shall not redeem the property as herein provided, the Revenue District Officer shall, as grantor, execute a deed conveying to the purchaser so much of the property as has been sold, free from all liens of any kind whatsoever, and the deed shall succinctly recite all the proceedings upon which the validity of the sale depends.
		- **SEC. 203. _Period of Limitation Upon Assessment and Collection_.**
		  id:: 631d7216-92d7-4599-b85a-64d4d50b4441
			- Except as provided in [Section 222](((631d7216-1497-40b6-a3f8-549b547b629d))), internal revenue taxes shall be assessed within three (3) years after the last day prescribed by law for the filing of the return, and no proceeding in court without assessment for the collection of such taxes shall be begun after the expiration of such period: **Provided,** *That* in a case where a return is filed beyond the period prescribed by law, the three (3)-year period shall be counted from the day the return was filed. For purposes of this Section, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for the filing thereof shall be considered as filed on such last day.
	- **SEC. 204. _Authority of the Commissioner to Compromise, Abate and Refund or Credit Taxes_.**
	  id:: 633ef5f8-3b34-4532-953d-f826a4ef410b
		- The Commissioner may –
			- _(A) Compromise the payment of any internal revenue tax, when:_
			  id:: 631a1166-305e-4d00-bab0-4ff5886c957f
				- (1) A reasonable doubt as to the validity of the claim against the taxpayer exists; or
				- (2) The financial position of the taxpayer demonstrates a clear inability to pay the assessed tax.
				  id:: 631a1166-bc73-417d-89c3-cc0c657e0982
					- The compromise settlement of any tax liability shall be subject to the following minimum amounts:
					- For cases of financial incapacity, a minimum compromise rate equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the basic assessed tax; and
					- For other cases, a minimum compromise rate equivalent to forty percent (40%) of the basic assessed tax.
				- Where the basic tax involved exceeds One million pesos (P1,000.000) or where the settlement offered is less than the prescribed minimum rates, the compromise shall be subject to the approval of the Evaluation Board which shall be composed of the Commissioner and the four (4) Deputy Commissioners.
			- _(B) Abate or cancel a tax liability, when:_
			  id:: 631a1166-68e1-4e94-a4e0-a26167411439
				- (1) The tax or any portion thereof appears to be unjustly or excessively assessed; or
				- (2) The administration and collection costs involved do not justify the collection of the amount due.
				- All criminal violations may be compromised except: (a) those already filed in court, or (b) those involving fraud.
			- _(C) Credit or refund taxes erroneously or illegally received or penalties imposed without authority_, refund the value of internal revenue stamps when they are returned in good condition by the purchaser, and, in his discretion, redeem or change unused stamps that have been rendered unfit for use and refund their value upon proof of destruction.
				- No credit or refund of taxes or penalties shall be allowed unless the taxpayer files in writing with the Commissioner a claim for credit or refund within two (2) years after the payment of the tax or penalty: **Provided, however,** *That* a return filed showing an overpayment shall be considered as a written claim for credit or refund.[(fn201)](((63370992-0a15-438f-befd-819d797e049a)))
		- A Tax Credit Certificate validly issued under the provisions of this Code may be applied against any internal revenue tax, excluding withholding taxes, for which the taxpayer is directly liable. Any request for conversion into refund of unutilized tax credits may be allowed, subject to the provisions of Section [230](((64408bf4-5b04-49a3-9c24-d649d32ab6e2))) of this Code: **Provided,** *That* the original copy of the Tax Credit Certificate showing a creditable balance is surrendered to the appropriate revenue officer for verification and cancellation: **Provided, further,** *That* in no case shall a tax refund be given resulting from availment of incentives granted pursuant to special laws for which no actual payment was made.
		- The Commissioner shall submit to the Chairmen of the Committee on Ways and Means of both the Senate and House of Representatives, every six (6) months, a report on the exercise of his powers under this Section, stating therein the following facts and information, among others: names and addresses of taxpayers whose cases have been the subject of abatement or compromise; amount involved; amount compromised or abated; and reasons for the exercise of power: **Provided**, *That* the said report shall be presented to the Oversight Committee in Congress that shall be constituted to determine that said powers are reasonably exercised and that the Government is not unduly deprived of revenues.
- ## CHAPTER II - CIVIL REMEDIES FOR COLLECTION OF TAXES
  collapsed:: true
	- **SEC. 205.** *Remedies for the Collection of Delinquent Taxes*.
		- The civil remedies for the collection of internal revenue taxes, fees or charges, and any increment thereto resulting from delinquency shall be:
		- (a) By distraint of goods, chattels, or effects, and other personal property of whatever character, including stocks and other securities, debts, credits, bank accounts and interest in and rights to personal property, and by levy upon real property and interest in rights to real property; and
		- (b) By civil or criminal action.
		- Either of these remedies or both simultaneously may be pursued in the discretion of the authorities charged with the collection of such taxes: Provided, however, That the remedies of distraint and levy shall not be availed of where the amount of tax involve is not more than One hundred pesos (P100).
		- The judgment in the criminal case shall not only impose the penalty but shall also order payment of the taxes subject of the criminal case as finally decided by the Commissioner.
		- The Bureau of Internal Revenue shall advance the amounts needed to defray costs of collection by means of civil or criminal action, including the preservation or transportation of personal property distrained and the advertisement and sale thereof, as well as of real property and improvements thereon.
	- **SEC. 206.** *Constructive Distraint of the Property of A Taxpayer*.
		- To safeguard the interest of the Government, the Commissioner may place under constructive distraint the property of a delinquent taxpayer or any taxpayer who, in his opinion, is retiring from any business subject to tax, or is intending to leave the Philippines or to remove his property therefrom or to hide or conceal his property or to perform any act tending to obstruct the proceedings for collecting the tax due or which may be due from him.
		- The constructive distraint of personal property shall be affected by requiring the taxpayer or any person having possession or control of such property to sign a receipt covering the property distrained and obligate himself to preserve the same intact and unaltered and not to dispose of the same ;in any manner whatever, without the express authority of the Commissioner.
		- In case the taxpayer or the person having the possession and control of the property sought to be placed under constructive distraint refuses or fails to sign the receipt herein referred to, the revenue officer effecting the constructive distraint shall proceed to prepare a list of such property and, in the presence of two (2) witnesses, leave a copy thereof in the premises where the property distrained is located, after which the said property shall be deemed to have been placed under constructive distraint.
	- **SEC. 207.** *Summary Remedies*.
	  id:: 631d7216-aa23-48c2-bf9d-e22fd3f1b318
	  collapsed:: true
		- **(A) Distraint of Personal Property**.
			- Upon the failure of the person owing any delinquent tax or delinquent revenue to pay the same at the time required, the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative, if the amount involved is in excess of One million pesos (P1,000,000), or the Revenue District Officer, if the amount involved is One million pesos (P1,000,000) or less, shall seize and distraint any goods, chattels or effects, and the personal property, including stocks and other securities, debts, credits, bank accounts, and interests in and rights to personal property of such persons in sufficient quantity to satisfy the tax, or charge, together with any increment thereto incident to delinquency, and the expenses of the distraint and the cost of the subsequent sale.
			- A report on the distraint shall, within ten (10) days from receipt of the warrant, be submitted by the distraining officer to the Revenue District Officer, and to the Revenue Regional Director: Provided, That the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative shall, subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner, have the power to lift such order of distraint: Provided, further, That a consolidated report by the Revenue Regional Director may be required by the Commissioner as often as necessary.
		- _**(B) Levy on Real Property**_.
			- After the expiration of the time required to pay the delinquent tax or delinquent revenue as prescribed in this Section, real property may be levied upon, before simultaneously or after the distraint of personal property belonging to the delinquent. To this end, any internal revenue officer designated by the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative shall prepare a duly authenticated certificate showing the name of the taxpayer and the amounts of the tax and penalty due from him. Said certificate shall operate with the force of a legal execution throughout the Philippines.
			- Levy shall be affected by writing upon said certificate a description of the property upon which levy is made. At the same time, written notice of the levy shall be mailed to or served upon the Register of Deeds for the province or city where the property is located and upon the delinquent taxpayer, or if he be absent from the Philippines, to his agent or the manager of the business in respect to which the liability arose, or if there be none, to the occupant of the property in question.
			- In case the warrant of levy on real property is not issued before or simultaneously with the warrant of distraint on personal property, and the personal property of the taxpayer is not sufficient to satisfy his tax delinquency, the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative shall, within thirty (30) days after execution of the distraint, proceed with the levy on the taxpayer's real property.
			- Within ten (10) days after receipt of the warrant, a report on any levy shall be submitted by the levying officer to the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative: Provided, however, That a consolidated report by the Revenue Regional Director may be required by the Commissioner as often as necessary: Provided, further, That the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative, subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner, shall have the authority to lift warrants of levy issued in accordance with the provisions hereof.
	- **SEC. 208.** *Procedure for Distraint and Garnishment*.
	  id:: 04411ba4-f7e0-4eb1-80c5-2bccd5eed120
	  collapsed:: true
		- The officer serving the warrant of distraint shall make or cause to be made an account of the goods, chattels, effects or other personal property distrained, a copy of which, signed by himself, shall be left either with the owner or person from whose possession such goods, chattels, or effects or other personal property were taken, or at the dwelling or place of business of such person and with someone of suitable age and discretion, to which list shall be added a statement of the sum demanded and note of the time and place of sale.
		- Stocks and other securities shall be distrained by serving a copy of the warrant of distraint upon the taxpayer and upon the president, manager, treasurer or other responsible officer of the corporation, company or association, which issued the said stocks or securities.
		- Debts and credits shall be distrained by leaving with the person owing the debts or having in his possession or under his control such credits, or with his agent, a copy of the warrant of distraint. The warrant of distraint shall be sufficient authority to the person owning the debts or having in his possession or under his control any credits belonging to the taxpayer to pay to the Commissioner the amount of such debts or credits.
		- Bank accounts shall be garnished by serving a warrant of garnishment upon the taxpayer and upon the president, manager, treasurer or other responsible officer of the bank. Upon receipt of the warrant of garnishment, the bank shall turn over to the Commissioner so much of the bank accounts as may be sufficient to satisfy the claim of the Government.
	- **SEC. 209. _Sale of Property Distrained and Disposition of Proceeds_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The Revenue District Officer or his duly authorized representative, other than the officer referred to in Section 208 of this Code shall, according to rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner, forthwith cause a notification to be exhibited in not less than two (2) public places in the municipality or city where the distraint is made, specifying; the time and place of sale and the articles distrained. The time of sale shall not be less than twenty (20) days after notice to the owner or possessor of the property as above specified and the publication or posting of such notice. One place for the posting of such notice shall be at the Office of the Mayor of the city or municipality in which the property is distrained.
		- At the time and place fixed in such notice, the said revenue officer shall sell the goods, chattels, or effects, or other personal property, including stocks and other securities so distrained, at public auction, to the highest bidder for cash, or with the approval of the Commissioner, through duly licensed commodity or stock exchanges.
		- In the case of Stocks and other securities, the officer making the sale shall execute a bill of sale which he shall deliver to the buyer, and a copy thereof furnished the corporation, company or association which issued the stocks or other securities. Upon receipt of the copy of the bill of sale, the corporation, company or association shall make the corresponding entry in its books, transfer the stocks or other securities sold in the name of the buyer, and issue, if required to do so, the corresponding certificates of stock or other securities.
		- Any residue over and above what is required to pay the entire claim, including expenses, shall be returned to the owner of the property sold. The expenses chargeable upon each seizure and sale shall embrace only the actual expenses of seizure and preservation of the property pending the sale, and no charge shall be imposed for the services of the local internal revenue officer or his deputy.
	- **SEC. 210. _Release of Distrained Property Upon Payment Prior to Sale_.**
		- If at any time prior to the consummation of the sale all proper charges are paid to the officer conducting the sale, the goods or effects distrained shall be restored to the owner.
	- **SEC. 211. _Report of Sale to Bureau of Internal Revenue_.**
		- Within two (2) days after the sale, the officer making the same shall make a report of his proceedings in writing to the Commissioner and shall himself preserve a copy of such report as an official record.
	- **SEC. 212. _Purchase by Government at Sale Upon Distraint_.**
	  id:: 64408bf4-2118-4506-9938-8deb842f2635
		- When the amount bid for the property under distraint is not equal to the amount of the tax or is very much less than the actual market value of the articles offered for sale, the Commissioner or his deputy may purchase the same in behalf of the national Government for the amount of taxes, penalties and costs due thereon.
		- Property so purchased may be resold by the Commissioner or his deputy, subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, the net proceeds therefrom shall be remitted to the National Treasury and accounted for as internal revenue.
	- **SEC. 213. _Advertisement and Sale_.**
		- Within twenty (20) days after levy, the officer conducting the proceedings shall proceed to advertise the property or a usable portion thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the claim and cost of sale; and such advertisement shall cover a period of a least thirty (30) days. It shall be effectuated by posting a notice at the main entrance of the municipal building or city hall and in public and conspicuous place in the barrio or district in which the real estate lies and by publication once a week for three (3) weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or city where the property is located. The advertisement shall contain a statement of the amount of taxes and penalties so due and the time and place of sale, the name of the taxpayer against whom taxes are levied, and a short description of the property to be sold. At any time before the day fixed for the sale, the taxpayer may discontinue all proceedings by paying the taxes, penalties and interest. If he does not do so, the sale shall proceed and shall be held either at the main entrance of the municipal building or city hall, or on the premises to be sold, as the officer conducting the proceedings shall determine and as the notice of sale shall specify.
		- Within five (5) days after the sale, a return by the distraining or levying officer of the proceedings shall be entered upon the records of the Revenue Collection Officer, the Revenue District officer and the Revenue Regional Director. The Revenue Collection Officer, in consultation with the Revenue district Officer, shall then make out and deliver to the purchaser a certificate from his records, showing the proceedings of the sale, describing the property sold stating the name of the purchaser and setting out the exact amount of all taxes, penalties and interest: Provided, however, That in case the proceeds of the sale exceeds the claim and cost of sale, the excess shall be turned over to the owner of the property.
		- The Revenue Collection Officer, upon approval by the Revenue District Officer may, out of his collection, advance an amount sufficient to defray the costs of collection by means of the summary remedies provided for in this Code, including the preservation or transportation in case of personal property, and the advertisement and subsequent sale, both in cases of personal and real property including improvements found on the latter. In his monthly collection reports, such advances shall be reflected and supported by receipts.
	- **SEC. 214. _Redemption of Property Sold_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Within one (1) year from the date of sale, the delinquent taxpayer, or any one for him, shall have the right of paying to the Revenue District Officer the amount of the public taxes, penalties, and interest thereon from the date of delinquency to the date of sale, together with interest on said purchase price at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per annum from the date of purchase to the date of redemption, and such payment shall entitle the person paying to the delivery of the certificate issued to the purchaser and a certificate from the said Revenue District Officer that he has thus redeemed the property, and the Revenue District Officer shall forthwith pay over to the purchaser the amount by which such property has thus been redeemed, and said property thereafter shall be free from the lien of such taxes and penalties.
		- The owner shall not, however, be deprived of the possession of the said property and shall be entitled to the rents and other income thereof until the expiration of the time allowed for its redemption.
	- **SEC. 215. _Forfeiture to Government for Want of Bidder_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- In case there is no bidder for real property exposed for sale as herein above provided or if the highest bid is for an amount insufficient to pay the taxes, penalties and costs, the Internal Revenue Officer conducting the sale shall declare the property forfeited to the Government in satisfaction of the claim in question and within two (2) days thereafter, shall make a return of his proceedings and the forfeiture which shall be spread upon the records of his office. It shall be the duty of the Register of Deeds concerned, upon registration with his office of any such declaration of forfeiture, to transfer the title of the property forfeited to the Government without the necessity of an order from a competent court.
		- Within one (1) year from the date of such forfeiture, the taxpayer, or any one for him, may redeem said property by paying to the Commissioner or the latter's Revenue Collection Officer the full amount of the taxes and penalties, together with interest thereon and the costs of sale, but if the property be not thus redeemed, the forfeiture shall become absolute.
	- **SEC. 216. _Resale of Real Estate Taken for Taxes_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The Commissioner shall have charge of any real estate obtained by the Government of the Philippines in payment or satisfaction of taxes, penalties or costs arising under this Code or in compromise or adjustment of any claim therefore; and said Commissioner may, upon the giving of not less than twenty (20) days notice, sell and dispose of the same of public auction or with prior approval of the Secretary of Finance, dispose of the same at private sale. In either case, the proceeds of the sale shall be deposited with the National Treasury, and an accounting of the same shall rendered to the Chairman of the Commission on Audit.
	- **SEC. 217. _Further Distraint or Levy_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The remedy by distraint of personal property and levy on realty may be repeated if necessary until the full amount due, including all expenses, is collected.
	- **SEC. 218. _Injunction not Available to Restrain Collection of Tax_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- No court shall have the authority to grant an injunction to restrain the collection of any national internal revenue tax, fee or charge imposed by this Code.
	- **SEC. 219. _Nature and Extent of Tax Lien_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- If any person, corporation, partnership, joint-account (cuentas en participacion), association or insurance company liable to pay an internal revenue tax, neglects or refuses to pay the same after demand, the amount shall be a lien in favor of the Government of the Philippines from the time when the assessment was made by the Commissioner until paid, with interests, penalties, and costs that may accrue in addition thereto upon all property and rights to property belonging to the taxpayer: Provided, That this lien shall not be valid against any mortgagee, purchaser or judgment creditor until notice of such lien shall be filed by the Commissioner in the office of the Register of Deeds of the province or city where the property of the taxpayer is situated or located.
	- **SEC. 220. _Form and Mode of Proceeding in Actions Arising under this Code_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Civil and criminal actions and proceedings instituted in behalf of the Government under the authority of this Code or other law enforced by the Bureau of Internal Revenue shall be brought in the name of the Government of the Philippines and shall be conducted by legal officers of the Bureau of Internal Revenue but no civil or criminal action for the recovery of taxes or the enforcement of any fine, penalty or forfeiture under this Code shall be filed in court without the approval of the Commissioner.
	- **SEC. 221. _Remedy for Enforcement of Statutory Penal Provisions_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The remedy for enforcement of statutory penalties of all sorts shall be by criminal or civil action, as the particular situation may require, subject to the approval of the Commissioner.
	- **SEC. 222. _Exceptions as to Period of Limitation of Assessment and Collection of Taxes_**.
	  id:: 631d7216-1497-40b6-a3f8-549b547b629d
		- (a) In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax or of failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be filed without assessment, ==at any time within ten (10) years after the discovery of the falsity, fraud or omission==: **Provided**, *That* in a fraud assessment which has become final and executory, the fact of fraud shall be judicially taken cognizance of in the civil or criminal action for the collection thereof.
		- (b) If before the expiration of the time prescribed in [Section 203](((631d7216-92d7-4599-b85a-64d4d50b4441))) for the assessment of the tax, both the Commissioner and the taxpayer have agreed in writing to its assessment after such time, the tax may be assessed within the period agreed upon. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent written agreement made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
		- (c) Any internal revenue tax which has been assessed within the period of limitation as prescribed in paragraph (a) hereof may be collected by [[distraint or levy]] or by a proceeding in court within five (5) years following the assessment of the tax.
		- (d) Any internal revenue tax, which has been assessed within the period agreed upon as provided in paragraph (b) hereinabove, may be collected by distraint or levy or by a proceeding in court within the period agreed upon in writing before the expiration of the five(5)-year period. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent written agreements made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
		- (e) **Provided, however,** *That* nothing in the immediately preceding and paragraph (a) hereof shall be construed to authorize the examination and investigation or inquiry into any tax return filed in accordance with the provisions of any tax amnesty law or decree.
	- **SEC. 223. _Suspension of Running of Statute of Limitations_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The running of the Statute of Limitations provided in Sections 203 and 222 on the making of assessment and the beginning of distraint or levy a proceeding in court for collection, in respect of any deficiency, shall be suspended for the period during which the Commissioner is prohibited from making the assessment or beginning distraint or levy or a proceeding in court and for sixty (60) days thereafter; when the taxpayer requests for a reinvestigation which is granted by the Commissioner; when the taxpayer cannot be located in the address given by him in the return filed upon which a tax is being assessed or collected: Provided, that, if the taxpayer informs the Commissioner of any change in address, the running of the Statute of Limitations will not be suspended; when the warrant of distraint or levy is duly served upon the taxpayer, his authorized representative, or a member of his household with sufficient discretion, and no property could be located; and when the taxpayer is out of the Philippines.
	- **SEC. 224. _Remedy for Enforcement of Forfeitures_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- The forfeiture of chattels and removable fixtures of any sort shall be enforced by the seizure and sale, or destruction, of the specific forfeited property. The forfeiture of real property shall be enforced by a judgment of condemnation and sale in a legal action or proceeding, civil or criminal, as the case may require.
	- **SEC. 225. _When Property to be Sold or Destroyed_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Sales of forfeited chattels and removable fixtures shall be effected, so far as practicable, in the same manner and under the same conditions as the public notice and the time and manner of sale as are prescribed for sales of personal property distrained for the non-payment of taxes.
		- Distilled spirits, liquors, cigars, cigarettes, other manufactured products of tobacco, and all apparatus used I or about the illicit production of such articles may, upon forfeiture, be destroyed by order of the Commissioner, when the sale of the same for consumption or use would be injurious to public health or prejudicial to the enforcement of the law.
		- All other articles subject to excise tax, which have been manufactured or removed in violation of this Code, as well as dies for the printing or making of internal revenue stamps and labels which are in imitation of or purport to be lawful stamps, or labels may, upon forfeiture, be sold or destroyed in the discretion of the Commissioner.
		- Forfeited property shall not be destroyed until at least twenty (20) days after seizure.
	- **SEC. 226. _Disposition of funds Recovered in Legal Proceedings or Obtained from Forfeitures_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- all judgments and monies recovered and received for taxes, costs, forfeitures, fines and penalties shall be paid to the Commissioner or his authorized deputies as the taxes themselves are required to be paid, and except as specially provided, shall be accounted for and dealt with the same way.
	- **SEC. 227. _Satisfaction of Judgment Recovered Against any Internal Revenue Officer_.**
	  collapsed:: true
		- When an action is brought against any Internal Revenue officer to recover damages by reason of any act done in the performance of official duty, and the Commissioner is notified of such action in time to make defense against the same, through the Solicitor General, any judgment, damages or costs recovered in such action shall be satisfied by the Commissioner, upon approval of the Secretary of Finance, or if the same be paid by the person used shall be repaid or reimbursed to him.
		- No such judgment, damages, or costs shall be paid or reimbursed in behalf of a person who has acted negligently or in bad faith, or with willful oppression.
- ## CHAPTER III - PROTESTING AN ASSESSMENT, REFUND, ETC.
	- **SEC. 228. _Protesting of Assessment_.**
	  id:: 633ef5f8-3fd1-4f38-a6f3-c35d93a4e162
		- When the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative finds that proper taxes should be assessed, he shall first notify the taxpayer of his findings: Provided, however, That a pre-assessment notice shall not be required in the following cases:
		  collapsed:: true
			- (a) When the finding for any deficiency tax is the result of mathematical error in the computation of the tax as appearing on the face of the return; or
			- (b) When a discrepancy has been determined between the tax withheld and the amount actually remitted by the withholding agent; or
			- (c) When a taxpayer who opted to claim a refund or tax credit of excess creditable withholding tax for a taxable period was determined to have carried over and automatically applied the same amount claimed against the estimated tax liabilities for the taxable quarter or quarters of the succeeding taxable year; or
			- (d) When the excise tax due on excisable articles has not been paid; or
			- (e) When the article locally purchased or imported by an exempt person, such as, but not limited to, vehicles, capital equipment, machineries and spare parts, has been sold, traded or transferred to non-exempt persons.
		- The taxpayers shall be informed in writing of the law and the facts on which the assessment is made; otherwise, the assessment shall be void.
		- Within a period to be prescribed by implementing rules and regulations, the taxpayer shall be required to respond to said notice. If the taxpayer fails to respond, the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative shall issue an assessment based on his findings.
		- Such assessment may be protested administratively by filing a request for reconsideration or reinvestigation within thirty (30) days from receipt of the assessment in such form and manner as may be prescribed by implementing rules and regulations. Within sixty (60) days from filing of the protest, all relevant supporting documents shall have been submitted; otherwise, the assessment shall become final.
		- If the protest is denied in whole or in part, or is not acted upon within one hundred eighty (180) days from submission of documents, the taxpayer adversely affected by the decision or inaction may appeal to the Court of Tax Appeals within thirty (30) days from receipt of the said decision, or from the lapse of one hundred eighty (180)-day period; otherwise, the decision shall become final, executory and demandable.
	- **SEC. 229. _Recovery of Tax Erroneously or Illegally Collected_.**
	  id:: 64408bf4-7257-4e02-acc4-c644e8d99f5b
		- No suit or proceeding shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any national internal revenue tax hereafter alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty claimed to have been collected without authority, of any sum alleged to have been excessively or in any manner wrongfully collected without authority, or of any sum alleged to have been excessively or in any manner wrongfully collected, until a claim for refund or credit has been duly filed with the Commissioner; but such suit or proceeding may be maintained, whether or not such tax, penalty, or sum has been paid under protest or duress.
		- In any case, no such suit or proceeding shall be filed after the [[$green]]==expiration of two (2) years from the date of payment of the tax or penalty== regardless of any supervening cause that may arise after payment: **Provided**, *however*, **That** the Commissioner may, even without a written claim therefor, refund or credit any tax, where on the face of the return upon which payment was made, such payment appears clearly to have been erroneously paid.
	- **SEC. 230. _Forfeiture of Cash Refund and of Tax Credit_.**
	  id:: 64408bf4-5b04-49a3-9c24-d649d32ab6e2
		- _**(A) Forfeiture of Refund**_. - A refund check or warrant issued in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Code, which shall remain unclaimed or uncashed within five (5) years from the date the said warrant or check was mailed or delivered, shall be forfeited in favor of the Government and the amount thereof shall revert to the general fund.
		- _**(B) Forfeiture of Tax Credit**_. - A tax credit certificate issued in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Code, which shall remain unutilized after five (5) years from the date of issue, shall, unless revalidated, be considered invalid, and shall not be allowed as payment for internal revenue tax liabilities of the taxpayer, and the amount covered by the certificate shall revert to the general fund.
		- _**(C)Transitory Provision**_. - For purposes of the preceding Subsection, a tax credit certificate issued by the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative prior to January 1, 1998, which remains unutilized or has a creditable balance as of said date, shall be presented for revalidation with the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative or on before June 30, 1998.
	- **SEC. 231. _Action to Contest Forfeiture of Chattel_.**
		- In case of the seizure of personal property under claim of forfeiture, the owner desiring to contest the validity of the forfeiture may, at any time before sale or destruction of the property, bring an action against the person seizing the property or having possession thereof to recover the same, and upon giving proper bond, may enjoin the sale; or after the sale and within six (6) months, he may bring an action to recover the net proceeds realized at the sale.