title:: NIRC/TITLE_X
alt-title:: STATUTORY OFFENSES AND PENALTIES
icon:: 龎

- ## STATUTORY OFFENSES AND PENALTIES
- ## CHAPTER I - ADDITIONS TO THE TAX
	- **SEC. 247.** *General Provisions.*
	  collapsed:: true
		- (a) The additions to the tax or deficiency tax prescribed in this Chapter shall apply to all taxes, fees and charges imposed in this Code.
			- The Amount so added to the tax shall be collected at the same time, in the same manner and as part of the tax.
		- (b) If the withholding agent is the Government or any of its agencies, political subdivisions or instrumentalities, or a government-owned or controlled corporation, the employee thereof responsible for the withholding and remittance of the tax shall be personally liable for the additions to the tax prescribed herein.
		- (c) The term '**_person_**', as used in this Chapter, includes an officer or employee of a corporation who as such officer, employee or member is under a duty to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.
	- **SEC. 248.** _Civil Penalties_.
	  id:: 6803db75-8854-4da4-b18d-58ac15f09fef
		- (A) There shall be imposed, in addition to the tax required to be paid, a penalty equivalent to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount due, in the following cases:
			- (1) Failure to file any return and pay the tax due thereon as required under the provisions of this Code or rules and regulations on the date prescribed; or
			- (2) Unless otherwise authorized by the Commissioner, filing a return with an internal revenue officer other than those with whom the return is required to be filed; or
			- (3) Failure to pay the deficiency tax within the time prescribed for its payment in the notice of assessment; or
			- (4) Failure to pay the full or part of the amount of tax shown on any return required to be filed under the provisions of this Code or rules and regulations, or the full amount of tax due for which no return is required to be filed, on or before the date prescribed for its payment.
		- (B) In case of willful neglect to file the return within the period prescribed by this Code or by rules and regulations, or in case a false or fraudulent return is willfully made, the penalty to be imposed shall be fifty percent (50%) of the tax or of the deficiency tax, in case, any payment has been made on the basis of such return before the discovery of the falsity or fraud: **Provided,** *That* a substantial under-declaration of taxable sales, receipts or income, or a substantial overstatement of deductions, as determined by the Commissioner pursuant to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, shall constitute prima facie evidence of a false or fraudulent return: **Provided, further,** *That* failure to report sales, receipts or income in an amount exceeding thirty percent (30%) of that declared per return, and a claim of deductions in an amount exceeding (30%) of actual deductions, shall render the taxpayer liable for substantial under-declaration of sales, receipts or income or for overstatement of deductions, as mentioned herein.
		  id:: 6803db75-48d6-42af-be0f-958b45f0d614
	- **SEC. 249.** _Interest_.
		- _**(A) In General**_.
			- There shall be assessed and collected on any unpaid amount of tax, interest at the rate of double the legal interest for loans or forbearance of any money in the absence of an express stipulation as set by the Banko Sentral ng Pilipinas[[212](#fn212)] from date prescribed for payment until the amount is fully paid: **Provided,** *That* in no case shall the deficiency and delinquency interest prescribed under Sections (B) and (C) hereof, be imposed simultaneously.[[213](#fn213)]
		- _**(B) Deficiency Interest**_.
			- Any deficiency in the tax due, as the term is defined in this Code, shall be subject to the interest prescribed in Subsection (A) hereof, which interest shall be assessed and collected from the date prescribed for its payment until the full payment thereof, or upon issuance of a notice and demand by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, whichever comes earlier.[[213](#fn213)]
		- _**(C) Delinquency Interest**_.
			- In case of failure to pay:
			- (1) The amount of the tax due on any return to be filed, or
			- (2) The amount of the tax due for which no return is required, or
			- (3) A deficiency tax, or any surcharge or interest thereon on the due date appearing in the notice and demand of the Commissioner, there shall be assessed and collected on the unpaid amount, interest at the rate prescribed in Subsection (A) hereof until the amount is fully paid, which interest shall form part of the tax.
		- _**(D) Interest on Extended Payment**_.
			- If any person required to pay the tax is qualified and elects to pay the tax on installment under the provisions of this Code, but fails to pay the tax or any installment hereof, or any part of such amount or installment on or before the date prescribed for its payment, or where the Commissioner has authorized an extension of time within which to pay a tax or a deficiency tax or any part thereof, there shall be assessed and collected interest at the rate hereinabove prescribed on the tax or deficiency tax or any part thereof unpaid from the date of notice and demand until it is paid.
	- **SEC. 250.** _Failure to File Certain Information Returns_.
		- In the case of each failure to file an information return, statement or list, or keep any record, or supply any information required by this Code or by the Commissioner on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, there shall, upon notice and demand by the Commissioner, be paid by the person failing to file, keep or supply the same, One thousand pesos (1,000) for each failure: **Provided, however,** *That* the aggregate amount to be imposed for all such failures during a calendar year shall not exceed Twenty-five thousand pesos (P25,000).
	- **SEC. 251.** _Failure of a Withholding Agent to Collect and Remit Tax_.
		- Any person required to withhold, account for, and remit any tax imposed by this Code or who willfully fails to withhold such tax, or account for and remit such tax, or aids or abets in any manner to evade any such tax or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided for under this Chapter, be liable upon conviction to a penalty equal to the total amount of the tax not withheld, or not accounted for and remitted.
	- **SEC. 252.** _Failure of a Withholding Agent to refund Excess Withholding Tax_.
		- Any employer/withholding agent who fails or refuses to refund excess withholding tax shall, in addition to the penalties provided in this Title, be liable to a penalty to the total amount of refunds which was not refunded to the employee resulting from any excess of the amount withheld over the tax actually due on their return.
- ## CHAPTER II CRIMES, OTHER OFFENSES AND FORFEITURES
	- **SEC. 253.** _General Provisions_.
		- (a) Any person convicted of a crime penalized by this Code shall, in addition to being liable for the payment of the tax, be subject to the penalties imposed herein: **Provided,** *That* payment of the tax due after apprehension shall not constitute a valid defense in any prosecution for violation of any provision of this Code or in any action for the forfeiture of untaxed articles.
		- (b) Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of a crime penalized herein or who causes the commission of any such offense by another shall be liable in the same manner as the principal.
		- (c) If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence without further proceedings for deportation.
			- If he is a public officer or employee, the maximum penalty prescribed for the offense shall be imposed and, in addition, he shall be dismissed from the public service and perpetually disqualified from holding any public office, to vote and to participate in any election.
			- If the offender is a Certified Public Accountant, his certificate as a Certified Public Accountant shall, upon conviction, be automatically revoked or cancelled.
		- (d) In the case of associations, partnerships or corporations, the penalty shall be imposed on the partner, president, general manager, branch manager, treasurer, officer-in-charge, and the employees responsible for the violation.
		- (e) The fines to be imposed for any violation of the provisions of this Code shall not be lower than the fines imposed herein or twice the amount of taxes, interest and surcharges due from the taxpayer, whichever is higher.
	- **SEC. 254.** _Attempt to Evade or Defeat Tax_. [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
	  id:: 6803db75-37a0-4192-8db1-151f1c098827
	  collapsed:: true
		- Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed under this Code or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not less than Five hundred thousand pesos (P500,000) but not more than Ten million pesos (P10,000,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than six (6) years but not more than Ten (10) years:[[214](#fn214)] **Provided,** *That* the conviction or acquittal obtained under this Section shall not be a bar to the filing of a civil suit for the collection of taxes.
	- **SEC. 255.** _Failure to File Return, Supply Correct and Accurate Information, Pay Tax Withhold and Remit Tax and Refund Excess Taxes Withheld on Compensation_.
		- Any person required under this Code or by rules and regulations promulgated thereunder to pay any tax make a return, keep any record, or supply correct the accurate information, who willfully fails to pay such tax, make such return, keep such record, or supply correct and accurate information, or withhold or remit taxes withheld, or refund excess taxes withheld on compensation, at the time or times required by law or rules and regulations shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than Ten thousand pesos (P10,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than one (1) year but not more than ten (10) years.
		- Any person who attempts to make it appear for any reason that he or another has in fact filed a return or statement, or actually files a return or statement and subsequently withdraws the same return or statement after securing the official receiving seal or stamp of receipt of internal revenue office wherein the same was actually filed shall, upon conviction therefore, be punished by a fine of not less than Ten thousand pesos (P10,000) but not more than Twenty thousand pesos (P20,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than one (1) year but not more than three (3) years.
	- **SEC. 256.** _Penal Liability of Corporations_.
		- Any corporation, association or general co-partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions penalized under this Code, in addition to the penalties imposed herein upon the responsible corporate officers, partners, or employees shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000).
	- **SEC. 257.** _Penal Liability for Making False Entries, Records or Reports, or Using Falsified or Fake Accountable Forms_.
		- (A) Any financial officer or independent Certified Public Accountant engaged to examine and audit books of accounts of taxpayers under Section 232 (A) and any person under his direction who:
			- (1) Willfully falsifies any report or statement bearing on any examination or audit, or renders a report, including exhibits, statements, schedules or other forms of accountancy work which has not been verified by him personally or under his supervision or by a member of his firm or by a member of his staff in accordance with sound auditing practices; or
			- (2) Certifies financial statements of a business enterprise containing an essential misstatement of facts or omission in respect of the transactions, taxable income, deduction and exemption of his client; or
		- (B) Any person who:
			- (1) Not being an independent Certified Public Accountant according to Section 232(B) or a financial officer, examines and audits books of accounts of taxpayers; or
			- (2) Offers to sign and certify financial statements without audit; or
			- (3) Offers any taxpayer the use of accounting bookkeeping records for internal revenue purposes not in conformity with the requirements prescribed in this Code or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; or
			- (4) Knowingly makes any false entry or enters any false or fictitious name in the books of accounts or record mentioned in the preceding paragraphs; or
			- (5) Keeps two (2) or more sets of such records or books of accounts; or
			- (6) In any way commits an act or omission, in violation of the provisions of this Section; or
			- (7) Fails to keep the books of accounts or records mentioned in [Section 232](((632c033f-c4fa-47af-9d8e-c0f081e0135f))) in a native language, English or Spanish, or to make a true and complete translation as required in Section 234 of this Code, or whose books of accounts or records kept in a native language, English or Spanish, and found to be at material variance with books or records kept by him in another language; or
			- (8) Willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed under this Code, or knowingly uses fake or falsified revenue official receipts, Letters of Authority, certificates authorizing registration, Tax Credit Certificates, Tax Debit Memoranda and other accountable forms shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine not less than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than six (6) years.
			- If the offender is a Certified Public Accountant, his certificate as a Certified Public Accountant shall be automatically revoked or cancelled upon conviction.
			- In the case of foreigners, conviction under this Code shall result in his immediate deportation after serving sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
	- **SEC. 258.** _Unlawful Pursuit of Business_.
		- Any person who carries on any business for which an annual registration fee is imposed without paying the tax as required by law shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (P5,000) but not more than Twenty thousand pesos (P20,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than six (6) months but not more than two (2) years: **Provided,** *That* in the case of a person engaged in the business of distilling, rectifying, repacking, compounding or manufacturing any article subject to [[excise tax]], he shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Thirty thousand pesos (P30,000) but not more than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than four (4) years.
	- **SEC. 259.** _Illegal Collection of Foreign Payments_.
		- Any person who knowingly undertakes the collection of foreign payments as provided under Section 67 of this Code without having obtained a license therefor, or without complying with its implementing rules and regulations, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Twenty thousand pesos (P20,000) but not more than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than one (1) year but not more than two (2) years.
	- **SEC. 260.** _Unlawful Possession of Cigarette Paper in Bobbins or Rolls, Etc_. [(fn48)](((635122de-ef20-4d9d-a8b8-74c1a26a3759)))
		- It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession cigarette paper in bobbins or rolls, cigarette tipping paper or cigarette filter tips, without the corresponding authority therefor issued by the Commissioner. Any person, importer, manufacturer of cigar and cigarettes, who has been found guilty under this Section, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than One million five hundred thousand pesos (₱1,500,000.00) but not more than Fifteen million pesos (₱15,000,000.00)[[215](#fn215)] and imprisonment for a term of not less than six (6) years and one (1) day but not more than twelve (12) years.
	- **SEC. 261.** _Unlawful Use of Denatured Alcohol_.
		- Any person who for the purpose of manufacturing any beverage, uses denatured alcohol or alcohol specially denatured to be used for motive power or withdrawn under bond for industrial uses or alcohol knowingly misrepresented to be denatured to be unfit for oral intake or who knowingly sells or offers for sale any beverage made in whole or in part from such alcohol or who uses such alcohol for the manufacture of liquid medicinal preparations taken internally, or knowingly sells or offers for sale such preparations containing as an ingredient such alcohol, shall upon conviction for each act or omission be punished by a fine of not less than Twenty thousand pesos (P20,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000) and suffer imprisonment for a term of not less than six (6) years and one (1) day but not more than twelve (12) years.
		- Any person who shall unlawfully recover or attempt to recover by distillation or other process any denatured alcohol or who knowingly sells or offers for sale, conceals or otherwise disposes of alcohol so recovered or redistilled shall be subject to the same penalties imposed under this Section.
	- **SEC. 262.** _Shipment or Removal of Liquor or Tobacco Products Under False Name or Brand or as an Imitation of any Existing or Otherwise Known-Product Name or Brand._ [(fn48)](((635122de-ef20-4d9d-a8b8-74c1a26a3759)))
		- Any person who ships, transports or removes spirituous, compounded or fermented liquors, wines or any manufactured products of tobacco under any other than the proper name or brand known to the trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the cask, bottle or package containing the same or as an imitation of any existing or otherwise known product name or brand or causes such act to be done, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than One million five hundred thousand pesos (₱1,500,000.00) but not more than Fifteen million pesos (₱15,000,000.00)[[215](#fn215)] and imprisonment of not less than six (6) years and one (1) day but not more than twelve (12) years.
	- **SEC. 263.** _Unlawful Possession or Removal of Articles Subject to Excise Tax Without Payment of the Tax._
		- Any person who owns and/or is found in possession of imported articles subject to excise tax, the tax on which has not been paid in accordance with law, or any person who owns and/or is found in possession of imported tax-exempt articles other than those to whom they are legally issued shall be punished by:
			- (a) A fine of not less than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000.00) but not more than Two hundred thousand pesos (P200,000.00)[[216](#fn216)] and imprisonment of not less than sixty (60) days but not more than one hundred (100) days if the appraised value, to be determined in the manner prescribed in Republic Act No. 10863, otherwise known as the ‘Customs Modernization and Tariff Act 20 (CMTA)’,[[216](#fn216)] including duties and taxes, of the articles does not exceed Two hundred fifty thousand pesos (P250,000.00): **Provided,** *That* if the appraised value, including duties and taxes, does not exceed Ten thousand pesos (P10,000.00), the penalty shall only be a fine in the amount of Twelve thousand pesos (P12,000.00);[[216](#fn216)]
			- (b) A fine of not less than One million pesos (₱1,000,000.00) but not more than Two million pesos (₱2,000,000.00)[[216](#fn216)] and imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than four (4) years if the appraised value, to be determined in the manner prescribed in Republic Act No. 10863, otherwise known as the ‘**Customs Modernization and Tariff Act (CMTA)**"[[[216](#fn216)] including duties and taxes, of the articles exceeds Two hundred fifty thousand pesos (₱250,000.00) but does not exceed Five hundred thousand pesos (₱500,000.00); [[216](#fn216)]
			- (c) A fine of not less than Three million pesos (₱3,000,000.00) but not more than Four million pesos (₱4,000,000.00)[[216](#fn216)] and imprisonment of not less than four (4) years but not more than six (6) years, if the appraised value, to be determined in the manner prescribed in Republic Act No. 10863, otherwise known as the ‘Customs Modernization and Tariff Act (CMTA)’[[216](#fn216)], including duties and taxes of the articles is more than Five hundred thousand pesos (₱500,000.00) but does not exceed One million pesos (₱1,000,000.00); [[216](#fn216)]
			- (d) A fine of not less than Ten million pesos (₱10,000,000.00) but not more than Twenty million pesos (₱20,000,000.00)[[216](#fn216)] and imprisonment of not less than ten (10) years but not more than twelve (12) years, if the appraised value, to be determined in the manner prescribed in Republic Act No. 10863, otherwise known as the ‘Customs Modernization and Tariff Act (CMTA)’[[216](#fn216)], including duties and taxes, of the articles exceeds One million pesos (₱1,000,000.00);[[216](#fn216)]
			- Any person who is found in possession of locally manufactured articles subject to excise tax, the tax on which has not been paid in accordance with law, or any person who is found in possession of such articles which are exempt from excise tax other than those to whom the same is lawfully issued shall be punished with a fine of not less than (10) times the amount of excise tax due on the articles found but not less than One million pesos (₱1,000,000.00) and imprisonment of not less than five (5) years but not more than eight (8) years.[[216](#fn216)]
			- Any manufacturer, importer, owner or person in charge of any article subject to excise tax who removes or allows or causes the unlawful removal of any such articles from the place of production or bonded warehouse, upon which the excise tax has not been paid at the time and in the manner required, and any person who knowingly aids or abets in the removal of such articles as aforesaid, or conceals the same after illegal removal shall, for the first offense, be punished with a fine of not less than ten (10) times the amount of excise tax due on the articles but not less than Fifty million pesos (₱50,000,000.00) and imprisonment of not less than five (5) years but not more than eight (8) years.[[216](#fn216)]
			- The mere unexplained possession of articles subject to excise tax, the tax on which has not been paid in accordance with law, shall be punishable under this Section.
	- **Sec. 263-A.** _Selling of Heated Tobacco Products and Vapor Products at a Lower Price than the Combined Excise and Value-added Taxes_.
		- Any person who sells heated tobacco products and vapor products at a price lower than the combined excise and value-added taxes shall be punished with a fine of ten (10) times the amount of [[excise tax]] plus value-added tax but not less than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000.00), and imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than four (4) years.
		- If there is a question on whether a nicotine product is a heated tobacco product or vapor product for purposes of taxation under this Section, the proper tax classification thereof shall be resolved through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance. [[217](#fn217)]
	- **SEC. 264.** _Failure or refusal to Issue Receipts or Sales or Commercial Invoices, Violations Related to the Printing of such Receipts or Invoices and Other Violations_.
		- (a) Any person who, being required under [Section 237](((632c033f-551e-495e-9830-0f2cf3369be7))) to issue receipts or sales or commercial invoices, fails or refuses to issue such receipts of invoices, issues receipts or invoices that do not truly reflect and/or contain all the information required to be shown therein, or uses multiple or double receipts or invoices, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than One thousand pesos (P1,000) but not more than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than four (4) years.
		- (b) Any person who commits any of the acts enumerated hereunder shall be penalized with a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand pesos (P500,000) but not more than Ten million pesos (Php10,000,000), and imprisonment of not less than six (6) years but not more than ten (10) years:[[218](#fn218)]
		- (1) Printing of receipts or sales or commercial invoices without authority from the Bureau of Internal Revenue; or
		- (2) Printing of double or multiple sets of invoices or receipts; or
		- (3) Printing of unnumbered receipts or sales or commercial invoices, not bearing the name, business style, Taxpayer Identification Number, and business address of the person or entity; or
		- (4) Printing of other fraudulent receipts or sales or commercial invoices.[[219](#fn219)]
	- **SEC. 264-A.** _Failure to Transmit Sales Data Entered on Cash Register Machine(CRM)/ Point of Sales System (POS) Machines to the BIR’s Electronic Sales Reporting System_.
		- Any taxpayer required to transmit sales data to the Bureau’s electronic sales reporting system but fails to do so, shall pay, for each day of violation, a penalty amounting to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) of the annual net income as reflected in the taxpayer’s audited financial statement for the second year preceding the current taxable year for each day of violation or Ten thousand pesos (P10,000), whichever is higher: **Provided,** *That* should the aggregate number of days of violation exceed one hundred eighty (180) days within a taxable year, an additional penalty of permanent closure of the taxpayer shall be imposed: Provided, further, That if the failure to transmit is due to *force majeure* or any cause beyond the control of the taxpayer the penalty shall not apply.[[220](#fn220)]
	- **SEC. 264-B.** _Purchase, Use, Possession, Sale or Offer to Sell, Installment, Transfer, Update, Upgrade, Keeping or Maintaining of Sales Suppression Devices_.
		- Any person who shall purchase, use, possess, sell or offer to sell, install, transfer, update, upgrade, keep, or maintain any software or device designed for, or is capable of:
			- (a) suppressing the creation of electronic records of sale transactions that a taxpayer is required to keep under existing tax laws and/or regulations; or
			- (b) modifying, hiding, or deleting electronic records of sales transactions and providing a ready means of access to them, shall be punished by a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand pesos (P500,000) but not more than Ten million pesos (P10,000,000), and suffer imprisonment of not less than two(2) years but not more than four(4) years: **Provided,** *That* a cumulative suppression of electronic sales record in excess of the amount of Fifty million pesos (P50,000,000) shall be considered as economic sabotage and shall be punished in the maximum penalty provided for under this provision.[[221](#fn221)]
	- **SEC. 265.** Offenses Relating to Stamps.
		- Any person who commits any of the acts enumerated hereunder shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than Ten million pesos (P10,000,000.00) but not more than Five hundred million pesos (P500,000,000.00) and imprisonment of not less than five (5) years[[222](#fn222)] but not more than eight (8) years:
			- (a) Making, importing, selling, using or possessing without express authority from the Commissioner, any die for printing or making stamps, labels, tags or playing cards;
			- (b) Reusing previously affixed stamps,[[223](#fn223)] erasing the cancellation marks of any stamp previously used, or altering the written figures or letters or cancellation marks on internal revenue stamps;
			- (c) Possessing false, counterfeit, restored or altered stamps, labels or tags or causing the commission of any such offense by another;
			- (d) Selling or offering for sale any box or package containing articles subject to excise tax with false, spurious or counterfeit stamps or labels or selling from any such fraudulent box, package or container as aforementioned; or
			- (e) Giving away or accepting from another, or selling, buying or using containers on which the stamps are not completely destroyed.
			- Provided, That the cumulative possession of false/counterfeit/recycled tax stamps in excess of the amount of Fifty million pesos (P50,000,000.00) shall be punishable by a fine of Five hundred million pesos (P500,000,000.00) or up to ten (10) times the value of the illegal stamps seized, whichever is higher, and imprisonment of not less than ten (10) years but not more than fifteen (15) years.[[223](#fn223)]
	- **SEC. 265-A.** _Offenses Relating to Fuel Marking_.
		- All offenses relating to fuel marking shall, in addition to the penalties imposed under Title X of the NIRC, as amended, Section 1401 of Republic Act No. 10863, otherwise known as the ‘Customs Modernization and Tariff Act(CMTA)’, and other relevant laws, be punishable as follows:
			- (a) Any person who is found to be engaged in the sale, trade, delivery, distribution or transportation of unmarked fuel in commercial quantity held for domestic use or merchandise shall, upon conviction, suffer the penalties of:
				- (1) For the first offense, a fine of Two million five hundred thousand pesos (P2,500,000);
				- (2) For the second offense, a fine of Five million pesos (P5,000,000); and
				- (3) For the third offense, a fine of Ten million pesos (P10,000,000) and revocation of license to engage in any trade or business.
			- (b) Any person who causes the removal of the official fuel marking agent from marked fuel, and the adulteration or dilution of fuel intended for sale to the domestic market, or the knowing possession, storage, transfer or offer to sale of fuel obtained as a result of such removal, adulteration or dilution shall be penalized in the same manner and extent as provided for in the preceding Subsection.
			- (c) Any person who commits any of the acts enumerated hereunder shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than One million pesos (P1,000,000) but not more than Five million pesos (P5,000,000), and suffer imprisonment of not less than four (4) years but not more than eight (8) years:
				- (1) Making, importing, selling, using or possessing fuel markers without express authority;
				- (2) Making, importing, selling, using or possessing counterfeit fuel markers;
				- (3) Causing another person or entity to commit any of the two(2) preceding acts; or
				- (4) Causing the sale, distribution, supply or transport of legitimately imported, in-transit, manufactured or procured controlled precursors and essential chemicals, in diluted, mixtures or in concentrated form, to any person or entity penalized in Subsections (a), (b) or (c) hereof, including but not limited to, packaging, repackaging, labeling, relabeling or concealment of such transaction through fraud, destruction of documents, fraudulent use of permits, misdeclaration, use of front companies or mail fraud.
			- (d) Any person who willfully inserts, places, adds or attaches directly or indirectly, through any overt or covert act, whatever quantity of any unmarked fuel, counterfeit additive or chemical in the person, house, effects, inventory, or in the immediate vicinity of an innocent individual for the purpose of implicating, incriminating or imputing the commission of any violation of this Act shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than Five million pesos (P5,000,000) but not more than Ten million pesos (P10,000,000), and suffer imprisonment of not less than four (4) years but not more than eight (8) years.
			- (e) Any person who is authorized, licensed or accredited under this Act and its implementing rules to conduct fuel tests, who issues false or fraudulent fuel test results knowingly, willfully, or through gross negligence, shall suffer the additional penalty of imprisonment ranging from one (1) year and one (1) day to two (2) years and six (6) months.
			- The additional penalties of revocation of the license to practice his profession in case of practitioner, and the closure of the fuel testing facility, may also be imposed at the instance of the court.[[224](#fn224)]
	- **Sec. 265-B.** _Violations Committed by Manufacturers, Importers, Indentors, and Wholesalers of Any Apparatus or Mechanical Contrivance Specially for the Manufacture of Articles Subject to Excise Tax and Importers, Indentors, Manufacturers or Sellers of Cigarette Paper in Bobbins, Cigarette Tipping Paper or Cigarette Filter Tips._
		- Any violation of [Section 164](((631d7215-8231-4004-ab16-89e3f32efff8))) of this Code, including mere possession of any apparatus or mechanical contrivance for the manufacture of cigarettes, cigarette paper, or cigarette tipping paper, for which no permit was obtained from the Commissioner shall be punishable with a fine of not less than Fifteen million pesos (₱15,0000,000.00) but not more than Fifty million pesos (₱50,000,000.00) and imprisonment of not less than twelve (12) years but not more than twenty (20) years.[[225](#fn225)]
	- **SEC. 266.** _Failure to Obey Summons_.
	  id:: 6337099a-96bc-4cc8-9c05-2b17b863f72b
		- Any person who, being duly summoned to appear to testify, or to appear and produce books of accounts, records, memoranda or other papers, or to furnish information as required under the pertinent provisions of this Code, neglects to appear or to produce such books of accounts, records, memoranda or other papers, or to furnish such information, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (P5,000) but not more than ten thousand pesos (P10,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than one (1) year but not more than two (2) years.
	- **SEC. 267.** _Declaration under Penalties of Perjury_.
		- Any declaration, return and other statement required under this Code, shall, in lieu of an oath, contain a written statement that they are made under the penalties of perjury.
		- Any person who willfully files a declaration, return or statement containing information which is not true and correct as to every material matter shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties prescribed for perjury under the Revised Penal Code.
	- **SEC. 268.** _Other Crimes and Offenses_.
	  id:: 6803db75-57df-4eac-939e-2171f6956210
		- _**(A) Misdeclaration or Misrepresentation of Manufacturers Subject to Excise Tax**_.
			- Any manufacturer who, in violation of the provisions of [Title VI of this Code]([[NIRC/TITLE_VI]]), misdeclares in the sworn statement required therein or in the sales invoice, any pertinent data or information shall be punished by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of the permit to engage in business as a manufacturer of articles subject to excise tax.
		- _**(B) Forfeiture of Property Used in Unlicensed Business or Dies Used for Printing False Stamps, Etc.**_
			- All chattels, machinery, and removable fixtures of any sort used in the unlicensed production of articles subject to excise tax shall be forfeited.
			- Dies and other equipment used for the printing or making of any internal revenue stamp, label or tag which is in imitation of or purports to be a lawful stamp, label or tag shall also be forfeited.
		- _**(C) Forfeiture of Goods Illegally Stored or Removed**_.
			- Unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Commissioner, all articles subject to excise tax should not be stored or allowed to remain in a distillery, distillery warehouse, bonded warehouse or other place where made, after the tax thereon has been paid; otherwise, all such articles shall be forfeited.
			- Articles withdrawn from any such place or from customs custody or imported into the country without the payment of the required tax shall likewise be forfeited.
- ## CHAPTER III - PENALTIES IMPOSED ON PUBLIC OFFICERS
	- id:: 6319fe7d-8d7f-40ae-b206-147e80953f2e
		- Every official, agent, or employee of the Bureau of Internal Revenue or any other agency of the Government charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this Code, who is guilty of any of the offenses herein below specified shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000) and suffer imprisonment of not less than ten (10) years but not more than fifteen (15) years and shall likewise suffer an additional penalty of perpetual disqualification to hold public office, to vote, and to participate in any public election:
			- (a) Extortion or willful oppression through the use of his office or willful oppression and harassment of a taxpayer who refused, declined, turned down or rejected any of his offers specified in paragraph (d) hereof;
			- (b) Knowingly demanding or receiving any fee, other or greater sums that are authorized by law or receiving any fee, compensation or reward, except as by law prescribed, for the performance of any duty;
			- (c) Willfully neglecting to give receipts, as by law required, for any sum collected in the performance of duty or willfully neglecting to perform any other duties enjoined by law;
			- (d) Offering or undertaking to accomplish, file or submit a report or assessment on a taxpayer without the appropriate examination of the books of accounts or tax liability, or offering or undertaking to submit a report or assessment less than the amount due the Government for any consideration or compensation, or conspiring or colluding with another or others to defraud the revenues or otherwise violate the provisions of this Code;
			- (e) Neglecting or by design permitting the violation of the law by any other person;
			- (f) Making or signing any false entry or entries in any book, or making or signing any false certificate or return;
			- (g) Allowing or conspiring or colluding with another to allow the unauthorized retrieval, withdrawal or recall of any return, statement or declaration after the same has been officially received by the Bureau of Internal Revenue;
			- (h) Having knowledge or information of any violation of this Code or of any fraud committed on the revenues collectible by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, failure to report such knowledge or information to their superior officer, or failure to report as otherwise required by law;
			- (i) Without the authority of law, demanding or accepting or attempting to collect, directly or indirectly, as payment or otherwise any sum of money or other thing of value for the compromise, adjustment or settlement of any charge or complaint for any violation or alleged violation of this Code; and
			- (j) Deliberate failure to act on the application for refunds within prescribed period provided under [Section 112](((631d7214-2083-430d-9a24-9caecc4b7222))) of this Act. [[226](#fn226)]
			- Provided, That the provisions of the foregoing paragraph notwithstanding, any internal revenue officer for which a prima facie case of grave misconduct has been established shall, after due notice and hearing of the administrative case and subject to Civil Service Laws, be dismissed from the revenue service: Provided, further, That the term 'grave misconduct', as defined in Civil Service Law, shall include the issuance of fake letters of authority and receipts, forgery of signature, usurpation of authority and habitual issuance of unreasonable assessments.
	- id:: 6319fe7d-f8ab-4d4e-8b40-faa1fecc455f
	  collapsed:: true
		- Except as provided in [Section 6(F)](((6319ebac-61e3-4cde-ae1c-9599ccf6d7d3))) and [71](((631d7212-0f77-4881-a970-f2a6e1ad92e6))) of this Code and Section 26 of Republic Act No. 6388, any officer or employee of the Bureau of Internal Revenue who divulges to any person or makes known in any other manner than may be provided by law information regarding the business, income or estate of any taxpayer, the secrets, operation, style or work, or apparatus of any manufacturer or producer, or confidential information regarding the business of any taxpayer, knowledge of which was acquired by him in the discharge of his official duties, shall upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than five (5) years, or both.
		- Any officer or employee of the Bureau of Internal Revenue who divulges or makes known in any other manner to any person other than the requesting foreign tax authority information obtained from banks and financial institutions pursuant to [Section 6(F)](((6319ebac-61e3-4cde-ae1c-9599ccf6d7d3))), knowledge or information acquired by him in the discharge of his official duties, shall upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) but not more than One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years but not more than five (5) years, or both.
	- **SEC. 271.** _Unlawful Interest of Revenue Law Enforcers in Business_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Any internal revenue officer who is or shall become interested, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or importation of any article subject to excise tax under Title VI of this Code or in the manufacture or repair or sale, of any die for printing, or making of stamps, or labels shall upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (P5,000) but not more than Ten thousand pesos (P10,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years and one (1) day but not more than four (4) years, or both.
	- **SEC. 272.** _Violation of Withholding Tax Provision_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Every officer or employee of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines or any of its agencies and instrumentalities, its political subdivisions, as well as government-owned or-controlled corporations, including the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), who, under the provisions of this Code or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, is charged with the duty to deduct and withhold any internal revenue tax and to remit the same in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other laws is guilty of any offense herein below specified shall, upon conviction for each act or omission be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (P5,000) but not more than Fifty thousand pesos (P50,000) or suffer imprisonment of not less than six (6) months and one (1) day but not more than two (2) years, or both:
		  collapsed:: true
			- (a) Failing or causing the failure to deduct and withhold any internal revenue tax under any of the withholding tax laws and implementing rules and regulations;
			- (b) Failing or causing the failure to remit taxes deducted and withheld within the time prescribed by law, and implementing rules and regulations; and
			- (c) Failing or causing the failure to file return or statement within the time prescribed, or rendering or furnishing a false or fraudulent return or statement required under the withholding tax laws and rules and regulations.
	- **SEC. 273.** _Penalty for Failure to Issue and Execute Warrant_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Any official who fails to issue or execute the warrant of distraint or levy within thirty (30) days after the expiration of the time prescribed in [Section 207](((631d7216-aa23-48c2-bf9d-e22fd3f1b318))) or who is found guilty of abusing the exercise thereof by competent authority shall be automatically dismissed from the service after due notice and hearing.
- ## CHAPTER IV - OTHER PENAL PROVISIONS
	- **SEC. 274.** _Penalty for Second and Subsequent Offenses_.
		- In the case of reincidence, the maximum of the penalty prescribed for the offense shall be imposed.
	- **SEC. 275.** _Violation of Other Provisions of this Code or Rules and Regulations in General_.
	  id:: 6803db75-fdff-46fc-aeeb-d57573266216
		- Any person who violates any provision of this Code or any rule or regulation promulgated by the Department of Finance, for which no specific penalty is provided by law, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not more than One thousand pesos (P1,000) or suffer imprisonment of not more than six (6) months, or both.
	- **SEC. 276.** _Penalty for Selling, Transferring, Encumbering or in any way Disposing of Property Placed under Constructive Distraint_.
		- Any taxpayer, whose property has been placed under constructive distraint, who sells, transfers, encumbers or in any way disposes of said property, or any part thereof, without the knowledge and consent of the Commissioner, shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than twice the value of the property so sold, encumbered or disposed of but not less than Five Thousand pesos (P5,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than two (2) years and one (1) day but not more than four (4) years, or both.
	- **SEC. 277.** _Failure to Surrender Property Placed under Distraint and Levy_.
		- Any person having in his possession or under his control any property or rights to property, upon which a warrant of constructive distraint, or actual distraint and levy has been issued shall, upon demand by the Commissioner or any of his deputies executing such warrant, surrender such property or right to property to the Commissioner or any of his deputies, unless such property or right is, at the time of such demand, subject to an attachment or execution under any judicial process. Any person who fails or refuses to surrender any of such property or right shall be liable in his own person and estate to the Government in a sum equal to the value of the property or rights not so surrendered but not exceeding the amount of the taxes (including penalties and interest) for the collection of which such warrant had been issued, together with cost and interest if any, from the date of such warrant. In addition, such person shall, upon conviction for each act or omission, be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (P5,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than six (6) months and one (1) day but not more than two (2) years, or both.
	- **SEC. 278.** _Procuring Unlawful Divulgence of Trade Secrets_.
		- Any person who causes or procures an officer or employee of the Bureau of Internal Revenue to divulge any confidential information regarding the business, income or inheritance of any taxpayer, knowledge of which was acquired by him in the discharge of his official duties, and which it is unlawful for him to reveal, and any person who publishes or prints in any manner whatever, not provided by law, any income, profit, loss or expenditure appearing in any income tax return, shall be punished by a fine of not more than Two thousand pesos (P2,000), or suffer imprisonment of not less than six (6) months nor more than five (5) years, or both.
	- **SEC. 279.** _Confiscation and Forfeiture of the Proceeds or Instruments of Crime_.
		- In addition to the penalty imposed for the violation of the provisions of Title X of this Code, the same shall carry with it the confiscation and forfeiture in favor of the government of the proceeds of the crime or value of the goods, and the instruments or tools with which the crime was committed: **Provided, however,** *That* if in the course of the proceedings, it is established that the instruments or tools used in the illicit act belong to a third person, the same shall be confiscated and forfeited after due notice and hearing in a separate proceeding in favor of the Government if such third person leased, let, chartered or otherwise entrusted the same to the offender: **Provided, further,** *That* in case the lessee subleased, or the borrower, charterer, or trustee allowed the use of the instruments or tools to the offender, such instruments or tools shall, likewise, be confiscated and forfeited: **Provided, finally,** *That* property of common carriers shall not be subject to forfeiture when used in the transaction of their business as such common carrier, unless the owner or operator of said common carrier was, at the time of the illegal act, a consenting party or privy thereto, without prejudice to the owner's right of recovery against the offender in a civil or criminal action. Articles which are not subject of lawful commerce shall be destroyed.
	- **SEC. 280.** _Subsidiary Penalty_.
		- If the person convicted for violation of any of the provisions of this Code has no property with which to meet the fine imposed upon him by the court, or is unable to pay such fine, he shall be subject to a subsidiary personal liability at the rate of one (1) day for each Eight pesos and fifty centavos (P8.50) subject to the rules established in [Article 39 of the Revised Penal Code](((631d722a-6278-4468-87ef-0ff7423fb4d4))).
	- **SEC. 281.** _Prescription for Violations of any Provision of this Code_.
		- All violations of any provision of this Code shall prescribe after five (5) years.
		- Prescription shall begin to run from the day of the commission of the violation of the law, and if the same be not known at the time, from the discovery thereof and the institution of judicial proceedings for its investigation and punishment.
		- The prescription shall be interrupted when proceedings are instituted against the guilty persons and shall begin to run again if the proceedings are dismissed for reasons not constituting jeopardy.
		- The term of prescription shall not run when the offender is absent from the Philippines.
	- **SEC. 282.** _Informer's Reward to Persons Instrumental in the Discovery of Violations of the National Internal Revenue Code and in the Discovery and Seizure of Smuggled Goods_.
	  id:: 6803db75-899c-4265-ba80-1d11279c1ff8
		- (A) For Violations of the National Internal Revenue Code.
			- Any person, except an internal revenue official or employee, or other public official or employee, or his relative within the sixth degree of consanguinity, who voluntarily gives definite and sworn information, not yet in the possession of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, leading to the discovery of frauds upon the internal revenue laws or violations of any of the provisions thereof, thereby resulting in the recovery of revenues, surcharges and fees and/or the conviction of the guilty party and/or the imposition of any of the fine or penalty, shall be rewarded in a sum equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the revenues, surcharges or fees recovered and/or fine or penalty imposed and collected or One Million Pesos (P1,000,000) per case, whichever is lower.
			- The same amount of reward shall also be given to an informer where the offender has offered to compromise the violation of law committed by him and his offer has been accepted by the Commissioner and collected from the offender: **Provided,** *That* should no revenue, surcharges or fees be actually recovered or collected, such person shall not be entitled to a reward: **Provided, further,** *That* the information mentioned herein shall not refer to a case already pending or previously investigated or examined by the Commissioner or any of his deputies, agents or examiners, or the Secretary of Finance or any of his deputies or agents: Provided, finally, That the reward provided herein shall be paid under rules and regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner.
		- (B) For Discovery and Seizure of Smuggled Goods.
			- To encourage the public to extend full cooperation in eradicating smuggling, a cash reward equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the fair market value of the smuggled and confiscated goods or One Million Pesos (P1,000,000) per case, whichever is lower, shall be given to persons instrumental in the discovery and seizure of such smuggled goods.
			- The cash rewards of informers shall be subject to income tax, collected as a final withholding tax at a rate of ten percent (10%).
			- The Provisions of the foregoing Subsections notwithstanding, all public officials, whether incumbent or retired, who acquired the information in the course of the performance of their duties during their incumbency, are prohibited from claiming informer's reward.