title:: NIRC/TITLE_VII
icon:: 龎

- **DOCUMENTARY STAMP TAX [169](((631d7211-7991-4e6e-a039-9bd6da515d0f)))**
- **SEC. 173. _Stamp Taxes Upon Documents, Loan Agreements, Instruments and Papers_.**
	- Upon documents, instruments, loan agreements and papers, and upon acceptances, assignments, sales and transfers of the obligation, right or property incident thereto, there shall be levied, collected and paid for, and in respect of the transaction so had or accomplished, the corresponding documentary stamp taxes prescribed in the following Sections of this Title, by the person making, signing, issuing, accepting, or transferring the same wherever the document is made, signed, issued, accepted or transferred when the obligation or right arises from Philippine sources or the property is situated in the Philippines, and the same time such act is done or transaction had: **Provided,** *That* whenever one party to the taxable document enjoys exemption from the tax herein imposed, the other party who is not exempt shall be the one directly liable for the tax.
- **SEC. 174. _Stamp Tax on Original Issue of Shares of Stock_.**
	- On every original issue, whether on organization, reorganization or for any lawful purpose, of shares of stock by any association, company or corporation, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Two peso (P2.00)[[170](#fn170)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the par value, of such shares of stock: **Provided,** *That* in the case of the original issue of shares of stock without par value, the amount of the documentary stamp tax herein prescribed shall be based upon the actual consideration for the issuance of such shares of stock: Provided, further, That in the case of stock dividends, on the actual value represented by each share.
- **SEC. 175. _Stamp Tax on Sales, Agreements to Sell, Memoranda of Sales, Deliveries or Transfer of Shares or Certificates of Stock_.**
	- On all sales, or agreements to sell, or memoranda of sale, or deliveries, or transfer of shares or certificates of stock in any association, company, or corporation, or transfer of such securities by assignment in blank, or by delivery, or by any paper or agreement, or memorandum or other evidences of transfer or sale whether entitling the holder in any manner to the benefit of such stock, or to secure the future payment of money, or for the future transfer of any stock, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of One peso and fifty centavos (P1.50)[[171](#fn171)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200) or fractional part thereof, of the par value of such due-bill, certificate of obligation or stock; **Provided,** *That* only one tax shall be collected on each sale or transfer of stock from one person to another, regardless of whether or not a certificate of stock is issued, indorsed, or delivered in pursuance of such sale or transfer: and **Provided, further,** *That* in the case of stock without par value the amount of documentary stamp tax herein prescribed shall be equivalent to fifty percent (50%)[[172](#fn172)] of the documentary stamp tax paid upon the original issue of said stock.
- **SEC. 176. _Stamp Tax on Bonds, Debentures, Certificate of Stock or Indebtedness Issued in Foreign Countries_.**
	- On all bonds, debentures, certificates of stock, or certificates of indebtedness issued in any foreign country, there shall be collected from the person selling or transferring the same in the Philippines, such as tax as is required by law on similar instruments when issued, sold or transferred in the Philippines.
- **SEC. 177. _Stamp Tax on Certificates of Profits or Interest in Property or Accumulations_.** [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
	- On all certificates of profits, or any certificate or memorandum showing interest in the property or accumulations of any association, company or corporation, and on all transfers of such certificates or memoranda, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of One peso (P1.00)[[173](#fn173)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the face value of such certificate or memorandum.
- **SEC. 178. _Stamp Tax on Bank Checks, Drafts, Certificates of Deposit not Bearing Interest, and Other Instruments_.**
	- On each bank check, draft, or certificate of deposit not drawing interest, or order for the payment of any sum of money drawn upon or issued by any bank, trust company, or any person or persons, companies or corporations, at sight or on demand, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Three pesos (P3.00).[[174](#fn174)]
- **SEC. 179. _Stamp Tax on All Debt Instruments_.**
  id:: 6320bb3f-7093-490a-bb23-5320c3e6d188
	- On every original issue of debt instruments, there shall be collected documentary stamp tax of One peso and fifty centavos (P1.50)[175](((631d7211-cca3-4f93-9941-6e3701972fa0))) on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the issue price of any such debt instrument: **Provided,** *That* for such debt instruments with terms of less than one (1) year, the documentary stamp tax to be collected shall be of proportional amount in accordance with the ratio of its terms in number of days to three hundred sixty days (365): **Provided, further,** *That* only one documentary stamp tax shall be imposed on either loan agreement, or promissory notes issued to secure such loan.
	- For purposes of this section, the term ‘debt instrument’ shall mean debt instrument representing borrowing and lending transactions including but not limited to debentures, certificates of indebtedness, due bills, bonds, loan agreements, including those signed abroad wherein the object of contract is located or used in the Philippines, instruments and securities issued by the government or any of its instrumentalities, deposit substitute debt instruments, certificates or other evidences of deposits that are either drawing interest significantly higher than the regular savings deposit taking into consideration the size of the deposit and the risks involved or drawing interest and having a specific maturity date, orders for payment of any sum of money otherwise than at sight or on demand, promissory notes, whether negotiable or non-negotiable, except bank notes issued for circulation.
- **SEC. 180. _Stamp Tax on All Bills of Exchange or Drafts_.** [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
	- On all bill of exchange (between points within the Philippines) or drafts, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of sixty centavo (P0.60)[[176](#fn176)] on each Two hundred peso (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the face value of any such bill of exchange or draft.
- **SEC. 181. _Stamp Tax Upon Acceptance of Bills of Exchange and Others_.**
	- Upon any acceptance or payment of any bill of exchange or order for the payment of money purporting to be drawn in a foreign country but payable in the Philippines, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Sixty centavos (P0.60)[[177](#fn177)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the face value of any such bill of exchange, or order, or the Philippine equivalent to such value, if expressed in foreign currency.
- **SEC. 182. _Stamp Tax on Foreign Bills of Exchange and Letters of Credit_.**
	- On all foreign bills of exchange and letters of credit (including orders, by telegraph or otherwise, for the payment of money issued by express or steamship companies or by any person or persons) drawn in but payable out of the Philippines in a set of three (3) or more according to the custom of merchants and bankers, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Sixty centavos (P0.60)[[178](#fn178)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the face value of any such bill of exchange or letter of credit, or the Philippine equivalent of such face value, if expressed in foreign currency.
- **SEC. 183. _Stamp Tax on Life Insurance Policies_.**
	- On all policies of insurance or other instruments by whatever name the same may be called, whereby any insurance shall be made or renewed upon any life or lives, there shall be collected a one-time documentary stamp tax at the following rates:[[179](#fn179)]
- | If the amount of insurance does not exceed P100,000                        | Exempt    |
- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
- | If the amount of insurance exceeds P100,000 but does not exceed P300,000   | Php 20.00 |
- | If the amount of insurance exceeds P300,000 but does not exceed P500,000   | Php 50.00 |
- | If the amount of insurance exceeds 500,000 but does not exceed 750,000     | Php100.00 |
- | If the amount of insurance exceeds P750,000 but does not exceed P1,000,000 | Php150.00 |
- | If the amount of insurance exceeds P1,000,000                              | Php200.00 |
- **SEC. 184. _Stamp Tax on Policies of Insurance Upon Property_.**
	- On all policies of insurance or other instruments by whatever name the same may be called, by which insurance shall be made or renewed upon property of any description, including rents or profits, against peril by sea or on inland waters, or by fire or lightning, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Fifty centavos (P0.50) on each Four pesos (P4.00), or fractional part thereof, of the amount of premium charged: **Provided, however,** *That* no documentary stamp tax shall be collected on reinsurance contracts or on any instrument by which cession or acceptance of insurance risks under any reinsurance agreement is effected or recorded.
- **SEC. 185. _Stamp Tax on Fidelity Bonds and Other Insurance Policies_.**
  id:: 6320bb3f-9db4-4318-81ab-79a9b6749d1a
	- On all ^^policies of insurance or bonds or obligations of the nature of indemnity^^ for loss, damage or liability made or renewed by any person, association, company or corporation ^^transacting the business of^^ accident, fidelity, employer’s liability, plate, glass, steam, boiler, burglar, elevator, automatic sprinkler, or other branch of insurance (except life, marine, inland, and fire insurance), and all bonds, undertakings, or recognizances, conditioned for the performance of the duties of any office or position, for the doing or not doing of anything therein specified, and on all obligations guaranteeing the validity or legality of any bond or other obligations issued by any province, city, municipality, or other public body or organization, and on all obligations guaranteeing the title to any real estate, or guaranteeing any mercantile credits, which may be made or renewed by any such person, company or corporation, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Fifty centavos (P0.50) on each Four pesos (P4.00), or fractional part thereof, of the premium charged.
- **SEC. 186. _Stamp Tax on Policies of Annuities and Pre-Need Plans_.**
	- On all policies of annuities, or other instruments by whatever name the same may be called, whereby an annuity may be made, transferred or redeemed, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of One peso (P1.00)[[180](#fn180)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200) or fractional part thereof, of the premium or installment payment or contract price collected. On pre-need plans, the documentary stamp tax shall be Forty centavos (P0.40)[[181](#fn181)] on each Two hundred pesos (P200), or fractional part thereof, of the premium or contribution collected.
- **SEC. 187. _Stamp Tax on Indemnity Bonds_.**
	- On all bonds for indemnifying any person, firm or corporation who shall become bound or engaged as surety for the payment of any sum of money or for the due execution or performance of the duties of any office or position or to account for money received by virtue thereof, and on all other bonds of any description, except such as may be required in legal proceedings, or are otherwise provided for herein, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Thirty centavos (P0.30) on each Four pesos (P4.00), or fractional part thereof, of the premium charged.
- **SEC. 188. _Stamp Tax on Certificates_.**
	- On each certificate of damages or otherwise, and on every other certificate or document issued by any customs officer, marine surveyor, or other person acting as such, and on each certificate issued by a notary public, and on each certificate of any description required by law or by rules or regulations of a public office, or which is issued for the purpose of giving information, or establishing proof of a fact, and not otherwise specified herein, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Thirty pesos (P30.00).[[182](#fn182)]
- **SEC. 189. _Stamp Tax on Warehouse Receipts_.** [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
	- On each warehouse receipt for property held in storage in a public or private warehouse or yard for any person other than the proprietor of such warehouse or yard, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Thirty pesos (P30.00):[[183](#fn183)] **Provided,** *That* no tax shall be collected on each warehouse receipt issued to any one person in any one calendar month covering property the value of which does not exceed Two hundred pesos (P200).
- **SEC. 190. _Stamp Tax on Jai-Alai, Horse Racing Tickets, Lotto or Other Authorized Numbers Games_.**
	- On each jai-alai, horse race ticket, lotto, or other authorized number games, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Twenty centavos (P0.20):[[184](#fn184)] **Provided,** *That* if the cost of the ticket exceeds One peso (P1.00), an additional tax of Twenty centavos (P0.20)[[184](#fn184)] on every One peso (P1.00), or fractional part thereof, shall be collected.
- **SEC. 191. _Stamp Tax on Bills of Lading or Receipts_.**
	- On each set of bills of lading or receipts (except charter party) for any goods, merchandise or effects shipped from one port or place in the Philippines[[185](#fn185)] (except on ferries across rivers), or to any foreign port, there shall be collected documentary stamp tax of Two peso (P2.00),[[186](#fn186)] if the value of such goods exceeds One hundred pesos (P100) and does not exceed One Thousand pesos (P1,000); Twenty pesos (P20.00),[[187](#fn187)] if the value exceeds One thousand pesos (P1,000): **Provided, however,** *That* freight tickets covering goods, merchandise or effects carried as accompanied baggage of passengers on land and water carriers primarily engaged in the transportation of passengers are hereby exempt.
- **SEC. 192. _Stamp Tax on Proxies_.**
	- On each proxy for voting at any election for officers of any company or association, or for any other purpose, except proxies issued affecting the affairs of associations or corporations organized for religious, charitable or literary purposes, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Thirty pesos (P30.00).[[188](#fn188)]
- **SEC. 193. _Stamp Tax on Powers of Attorney_.**
	- On each power of attorney to perform any act whatsoever, except acts connected with the collection of claims due from or accruing to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, or the government of any province, city or municipality, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Ten pesos (P10.00).[[189](#fn189)]
- **SEC. 194. _Stamp Tax on Leases and Other Hiring Agreements_.**
	- On each lease, agreement, memorandum, or contract for hire, use or rent of any lands or tenements, or portions thereof, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax of Six pesos (P6.00)[[190](#fn190)] for the first Two thousand pesos (P2,000), or fractional part thereof, and an additional Two peso (P2.00)[[191](#fn191)] for every One Thousand pesos (P1,000) or fractional part thereof, in excess of the first Two thousand pesos (P2,000) for each year of the term of said contract or agreement.
- **SEC. 195. _Stamp Tax on Mortgages, Pledges and Deeds of Trust_.**
	- On every mortgage or pledge of lands, estate, or property, real or personal, heritable or movable, whatsoever, where the same shall be made as a security for the payment of any definite and certain sum of money lent at the time or previously due and owing of forborne to be paid, being payable and on any conveyance of land, estate, or property whatsoever, in trust or to be sold, or otherwise converted into money which shall be and intended only as security, either by express stipulation or otherwise, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax at the following rates:
	- (a) When the amount secured does not exceed Five thousand pesos (P5,000), Forty pesos (P40.00).[[192](#fn192)]
	- (b) On each Five thousand pesos (P5,000), or fractional part thereof in excess of Five thousand pesos (P5,000), an additional tax of Twenty pesos (P20.00).[[193](#fn193)]
	- On any mortgage, pledge, or deed of trust, where the same shall be made as a security for the payment of a fluctuating account or future advances without fixed limit, the documentary stamp tax on such mortgage, pledge or deed of trust shall be computed on the amount actually loaned or given at the time of the execution of the mortgage, pledge or deed of trust, additional documentary stamp tax shall be paid which shall be computed on the basis of the amount advanced or loaned at the rates specified above: **Provided, however,** *That* if the full amount of the loan or credit, granted under the mortgage, pledge or deed of trust shall be computed on the amount actually loaned or given at the time of the execution of the mortgage, pledge or deed of trust.
	- However, if subsequent advances are made on such mortgage, pledge or deed of trust, additional documentary stamp tax shall be paid which shall be computed on the basis of the amount advanced or loaned at the rates specified above: **Provided, however,** *That* if the full amount of the loan or credit, granted under the mortgage, pledge or deed of trust is specified in such mortgage, pledge or deed of trust, the documentary stamp tax prescribed in this Section shall be paid and computed on the full amount of the loan or credit granted.
- **SEC. 196. _Stamp Tax on Deeds of Sale, Conveyances and Donation_**_[[194](#fn194)]_ **_of Real Property_.**
	- On all conveyances, donations,[[194](#fn194)] deeds, instruments, or writings, other than grants, patents or original certificates of adjudication issued by the Government, whereby any land, tenement, or other realty sold shall be granted, assigned, transferred, donated[[194](#fn194)] or otherwise conveyed to the purchaser, or purchasers, or to any other person or persons designated by such purchaser or purchasers or donee,[[194](#fn194)] there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax, at the rates herein below prescribed, based on the consideration contracted to be paid for such realty or on its fair market value determined in accordance with Section 6(E) of this Code, whichever is higher: **Provided**, *That* when one of the contracting parties is the Government, the tax herein imposed shall be based on the actual consideration.
	- (a) When the consideration, or value received or contracted to be paid for such realty after making proper allowance of any encumbrance, does not exceed One thousand pesos (P1,000) fifteen pesos (P15.00).
	- (b) For each additional One thousand Pesos (P1,000), or fractional part thereof in excess of One thousand pesos (P1,000) of such consideration or value, Fifteen pesos (P15.00).
	- Transfers exempt from donor’s tax under Section 101(a) and (b) of this Code shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.[[194](#fn194)]
	- When it appears that the amount of the documentary stamp tax payable hereunder has been reduced by an incorrect statement of the consideration in any conveyance, deed, instrument or writing subject to such tax the Commissioner, provincial or city Treasurer, or other revenue officer shall, from the assessment rolls or other reliable source of information, assess the property of its true market value and collect the proper tax thereon.
- **SEC. 197. _Stamp Tax on Charter Parties and Similar Instruments._**
	- On every charter party, contract or agreement for the charter of any ship, vessel or steamer, or any letter or memorandum or other writing between the captain, master or owner, or other person acting as agent of any ship, vessel or steamer, and any other person or persons for or relating to the charter of any such ship, vessel or steamer, and on any renewal or transfer of such charter, contract, agreement, letter or memorandum, there shall be collected a documentary stamp tax at the following rates:
		- (a) If the registered gross tonnage of the ship, vessel or steamer does not exceed one thousand (1,000) tons, and the duration of the charter or contract does not exceed six (6) months, One thousand pesos (P1,000);[[195](#fn195)] and for each month or fraction of a month in excess of six (6) months, an additional tax of One hundred pesos (P100.00)[[196](#fn196)] shall be paid.
		- (b) If the registered gross tonnage exceeds one thousand (1,000) tons and does not exceed ten thousand (10,000) tons, and the duration of the charter or contract does not exceed six (6) months, Two thousand pesos (P2,000);[[197](#fn197)] and for each month or fraction of a month in excess of six (6) months, an additional tax of Two hundred pesos (P200)[[198](#fn198)] shall be paid.
		- (c) If the registered gross tonnage exceeds ten thousand (10,000) tons and the duration of the charter or contract does not exceed six (6) months, Three thousand pesos (P3,000);[[199](#fn199)] and for each month or fraction of a month in excess of six (6) months, an additional tax of Three hundred pesos (P300)[[200](#fn200)] shall be paid.
- **SEC. 198. _Stamp Tax on Assignments and Renewals of Certain Instruments._**
	- Upon each and every assignment or transfer of any mortgage, lease or policy of insurance, or the renewal or continuance of any agreement, contract, charter, or any evidence of obligation or indebtedness by altering or otherwise, there shall be levied, collected and paid a documentary stamp tax, at the same rate as that imposed on the original instrument.
- **SEC. 199. _Documents and Papers Not Subject to Stamp Tax_.**
	- The provisions of Section 173 to the contrary notwithstanding, the following instruments, documents and papers shall be exempt from the documentary stamp tax:
	- (a) Policies of insurance or annuities made or granted by a fraternal or beneficiary society, order, association or cooperative company, operated on the lodge system or local cooperation plan and organized and conducted solely by the members thereof for the exclusive benefit of each member and not for profit.
	- (b) Certificates of oaths administered to any government official in his official capacity or of acknowledgment by any government official in the performance of his official duties, written appearance in any court by any government official, in his official capacity; certificates of the administration of oaths to any person as to the authenticity of any paper required to be filed in court by any person or party thereto, whether the proceedings be civil or criminal; papers and documents filed in courts by or for the national, provincial, city or municipal governments; affidavits of poor persons for the purpose of proving poverty; statements and other compulsory information required of persons or corporations by the rules and regulations of the national, provincial, city or municipal governments exclusively for statistical purposes and which are wholly for the use of the bureau or office in which they are filed, and not at the instance or for the use or benefit of the person filing them; certified copies and other certificates placed upon documents, instruments and papers for the national, provincial, city, or municipal governments, made at the instance and for the sole use of some other branch of the national, provincial, city or municipal governments; and certificates of the assessed value of lands, not exceeding Two hundred pesos (P200) in value assessed, furnished by the provincial, city or municipal Treasurer to applicants for registration of title to land.
	- (c) Borrowing and lending of securities executed under the Securities Borrowing and Lending Program of a registered exchange, or in accordance with regulations prescribed by the appropriate regulatory authority: **Provided, however,** *That* any borrowing or lending of securities agreement as contemplated hereof shall be duly covered by a master securities borrowing and lending agreement acceptable to the appropriate regulatory authority and which agreement is duly registered and approved by the Bureau of Internal Revenue. (BIR).
	- (d) Loan agreements or promissory notes, the aggregate of which does not exceed Two hundred fifty thousand pesos ( P250,000) or any such amount as may be determined by the Secretary of Finance, executed by an individual for his purchase on installment for his personal use or that for his family and not for business or resale, barter or hire of a house, lot, motor vehicle, appliance or furniture: **Provided, however,** *That* the amount to be set by the Secretary of Finance shall be in accordance with a relevant price index but not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the current amount and shall remain in force at least for three (3) years.
	- (e) Sale, barter or exchange of shares of stock listed and traded through the local stock exchange.
	- (f) Assignment or transfer of any mortgage, lease or policy of insurance, or the renewal or continuance of any agreement, contract, charter, or any evidence of obligation or indebtedness, if there is no change in the maturity date or remaining period of coverage from that of the original instrument.
	- (g) Fixed income and other securities traded in the secondary market or through an exchange.
	- (h) Derivatives: Provided, That for purposes of this exemption, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements shall be treated similarly as derivatives.
	- (i) Interbank or interdepartmental advances within the same legal entity.
	- (j) All forebearances arising from sales or service contracts including credit card and trade receivables: Provided, That the exemption be limited to those executed by the seller or service provided.
	- (k) Bank deposit accounts without a fixed term or maturity.
	- (l) All contracts, deeds, documents, documents and transactions related to the conduct of business of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.
	- (m) Transfer of property pursuant to Section 40 (C) (2) of the National Internal Revenue Code of 1997, as amended.
	- (n) Interbank call loans with maturity of not more than seven (7) days to cover deficiency in reverses against deposit liabilities including those between or among banks and quasi-banks.
- **SEC. 200. _Payment of Documentary Stamp Tax_.**
	- _**(A) In General**_.- The provisions of Presidential Decree No. 1045 notwithstanding, any person liable to pay documentary stamp tax upon any document subject to tax under Title VII of this Code shall file a tax return and pay the tax in accordance with the rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner.
	- _**(B) Time for Filing and Payment of the Tax.**_ - Except as provided by rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner, the tax return prescribed in this Section shall be filed within ten (10) days after the close of the month when the taxable document was made, signed, issued, accepted, or transferred, and the tax thereon shall be paid at the same time the aforesaid return is filed.
	- _**(C) Where to File**_.- Except in cases where the Commissioner otherwise permits, the aforesaid tax return shall be filed with and the tax due shall be paid through the authorized agent bank within the territorial jurisdiction of the Revenue District Office which has jurisdiction over the residence or principal place of business of the taxpayer. In places where there is no authorized agent bank, the return shall be filed with the Revenue District Officer, collection agent, or duly authorized Treasurer of the city or municipality in which the taxpayer has his legal residence or principal place of business.
	- _**(D) Exception**_. - In lieu of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the tax may be paid either through purchase and actual affixture; or by imprinting the stamps through a documentary stamp metering machine, on the taxable document, in the manner as may be prescribed by rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner.
- **SEC. 201. _Effect of Failure to Stamp Taxable Document_.**
	- An instrument, document or paper which is required by law to be stamped and which has been signed, issued, accepted or transferred without being duly stamped, shall not be recorded, nor shall it or any copy thereof or any record of transfer of the same be admitted or used in evidence in any court until the requisite stamp or stamps are affixed thereto and cancelled.
	- No notary public or other office authorized to administer oaths shall add this *jurat* or acknowledgment to any document subject to documentary stamp tax unless the proper documentary stamps are affixed thereto and cancelled.