id:: 631d7215-4e73-49ac-bbab-3594c0b1b677
title:: NIRC/TITLE_VI
alt-title:: EXCISE TAXES ON CERTAIN GOODS
icon:: 龎

-
- ## EXCISE TAXES ON CERTAIN GOODS [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
- ### CHAPTER I
	- **GENERAL PROVISIONS**
		- **SEC.129.** _Goods and Services Subject to Excise Taxes_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Excise taxes apply to goods manufactured or produced in the Philippines for domestic sales or consumption or for any other disposition and to things imported as well as services performed in the Philippines.[(fn127)](((6803db72-ed64-4865-8136-8895f17178b7))) The excise tax imposed herein shall be in addition to the value-added tax imposed under [Title IV]([[NIRC/TITLE_IV]]).
			- For purposes of this Title, excise taxes herein imposed and based on weight or volume capacity or any other physical unit of measurement shall be referred to as 'specific tax' and an excise tax herein imposed and based on selling price or other specified value of the good or service performed [[127](#fn127)] shall be referred to as 'ad valorem tax.'
		- **SEC. 130.** _Filing of Return and Payment of Excise Tax on Domestic Products_.
		  id:: 6803db75-7981-4008-8687-8eeb9478f18c
		  collapsed:: true
			- _**(A) Persons Liable to File a Return, Filing of Return on Removal and Payment of Tax**_.
				- _**(1) Persons Liable to File a Return**_.
					- Every person liable to pay excise tax imposed under this Title shall file a separate return for each place of production setting forth, among others the description and quantity or volume of products to be removed, the applicable tax base and the amount of tax due thereon: Provided, however, That in the case of indigenous petroleum, natural gas or liquefied natural gas, the excise tax shall be paid by the first buyer, purchaser or transferee for local sale, barter or transfer, while the excise tax on exported products shall be paid by the owner, lessee, concessionaire or operator of the mining claim.
					- Should domestic products be removed from the place of production without the payment of the tax, the owner or person having possession thereof shall be liable for the tax due thereon.
				- _**(2) Time for Filing of Return and Payment of the Tax**_.
					- Unless otherwise specifically allowed, the return shall be filed and the excise tax paid by the manufacturer or producer before removal of domestic products from place of production: Provided, That the excise tax on locally manufactured petroleum products and indigenous petroleum levied under Sections 148 and 151(A)(4), respectively, of this Title shall be paid within ten (10) days from the date of removal of such products for the period from January 1, 1998 to June 30, 1998; within five (5) days from the date of removal of such products for the period from July 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998; and, before removal from the place of production of such products from January 1, 1999 and thereafter: Provided, further, That the excise tax on nonmetallic mineral or mineral products, or quarry resources shall be due and payable upon removal of such products from the locality where mined or extracted, but with respect to the excise tax on locally produced or extracted metallic mineral or mineral products, the person liable shall file a return and pay the tax within fifteen (15) days after the end of the calendar quarter when such products were removed subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner. For this purpose, the taxpayer shall file a bond in an amount which approximates the amount of excise tax due on the removals for the said quarter. The foregoing rules notwithstanding, for imported mineral or mineral products, whether metallic or nonmetallic, the excise tax due thereon shall be paid before their removal from customs custody.
				- _**(3) Place of Filing of Return and Payment of the Tax**_.
					- Except as the Commissioner otherwise permits, the return shall be filed with and the tax paid to any authorized agent bank or Revenue Collection Officer, or duly authorized City or Municipal Treasurer in the Philippines.
				- _**(4) Exceptions**_.
					- The Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner may, by rules and regulations, prescribe:
						- (a) The time for filing the return at intervals other than the time prescribed in the preceding paragraphs for a particular class or classes of taxpayers after considering factors such as volume of removals, adequate measures of security and such other relevant information required to be submitted under the pertinent provisions of this Code; and
						- (b) The manner and time of payment of excise taxes other than as herein prescribed, under a tax prepayment, advance deposit or similar schemes. In the case of locally produced of extracted minerals and mineral products or quarry resources where the mine site or place of extraction is not the same as the place of processing or production, the return shall be filed with and the tax paid to the Revenue District Office having jurisdiction over the locality where the same are mined, extracted or quarried: Provided, however, That for metallic minerals processed abroad, the return shall be filed and the tax due thereon paid to the Revenue District Office having jurisdiction over the locality where the same are mined, extracted or quarried.
			- _**(B) Determination of Gross Selling Price of Goods Subject to Ad Valorem Tax**_.
				- Unless otherwise provided, the price, excluding the value-added tax, at which the goods are sold at wholesale in the place of production or through their sales agents to the public shall constitute the gross selling price. If the manufacturer also sells or allows such goods to be sold at wholesale in another establishment of which he is the owner or in the profits of which he has an interest, the wholesale price in such establishment shall constitute the gross selling price. Should such price be less than the cost of manufacture plus expenses incurred until the goods are finally sold, then a proportionate margin of profit, not less than ten percent (10%) of such manufacturing cost and expenses, shall be added to constitute the gross selling price.
			- _**(C) Manufacturer's or Producer's Sworn Statement**_.
			  id:: 6803db75-fec6-4833-b393-d9a47e393392
				- Every manufacturer or producer of goods or products subject to excise taxes shall file with the Commissioner on the date or dates designated by the latter, and as often as may be required, a sworn statement showing, among other information, the different goods or products manufactured or produced and their corresponding gross selling price or market value, together with the cost of manufacture or production plus expenses incurred or to be incurred until the goods or products are finally sold.
			- _**(D) Credit for Excise tax on Goods Actually Exported**_.
				- When goods locally produced or manufactured are removed and actually exported without returning to the Philippines, whether so exported in their original state or as ingredients or parts of any manufactured goods or products, any excise tax paid thereon shall be credited or refunded upon submission of the proof of actual exportation and upon receipt of the corresponding foreign exchange payment: Provided, That the excise tax on mineral products, except coal and coke, imposed under [Section 151](((6803db75-64ab-4aec-96ac-c08d9ac78168))) shall not be creditable or refundable even if the mineral products are actually exported.
		- **SEC. 131.** _Payment of Excise Taxes on Imported Articles_.
		  id:: 6803db75-80bf-4c95-986d-c2c7b5fc5dbf
		  collapsed:: true
			- _**(A) Persons Liable**_.
				- Excise taxes on imported articles shall be paid by the owner or importer to the Custom Officers, conformably with the regulations of the Department of Finance and before the release of such articles from the customs house, or by the person who is found in possession of articles which are exempt from excise taxes other than those legally entitled to exemption.
				- In the case of tax-free articles brought or imported into the Philippines by persons, entities, or agencies exempt from tax which are subsequently sold, transferred or exchanged in the Philippines to non-exempt persons or entitles, the purchasers or recipients shall be considered the importers thereof, and shall be liable for the duty and internal revenue tax due on such importation.
				- The provision of any special or general law to the contrary notwithstanding, the importation of cigars and cigarettes, distilled spirits, fermented liquors and wines into the Philippines, even if destined for tax and duty free shops, shall be subject to all applicable taxes, duties, charges, including excise taxes due thereon. This shall apply to cigars and cigarettes, distilled spirits, fermented liquors and wines brought directly into the duly chartered or legislated freeports of the Subic Special Economic and Freeport Zone, created under Republic Act No. 7227; the Cagayan Special Economic Zone and Freeport, created under Republic Act No. 7922; and the Zamboanga City Special Economic Zone, created under Republic Act No. 7903,and such other freeports as may hereafter be established or created by law: Provided, further, That nothwithstanding the provisions of Republic Act Nos. 9400 and 9593, importations of cigars and cigarettes, distilled spirits, fermented liquors and wines made directly by a government-owned and operated duty-free shop, like the Duty-Free Philippines (DFP), shall be exempted from all applicable duties only: Provided, still further, That such articles directly imported by a government-owned and operated duty-free shop like the Duty-Free Philippines, shall be labeled ‘duty-free’ and ‘not for resale’: Provided, finally, That the removal and transfer of tax and duty-free goods, products, machinery, equipment and other similar articles other than cigars and cigarettes, distilled spirits, fermented liquors and wines, from one freeport to another freeport, shall not be deemed an introduction into the Philippine customs territory. [[89](#fn89)]
				- Cigars and cigarettes, distilled spirits and wines within the premises of all duty-free shops which are not labeled as herein above required, as well as tax and duty-free articles obtained from a duty free shop and subsequently found in a non duty-free shop to be offered for resale shall be confiscated, and the perpetrator of such non-labeling or re-selling shall be punishable under the applicable provisions of this Code.
				- Articles confiscated shall de destroyed using the most environmentally friendly method available in accordance with the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioners of Customs and Internal Revenue.
				- The tax due on any such goods, products, machinery, equipment or other similar articles shall constitute a lien on the article itself, and such lien shall be superior to all other charges or liens, irrespective of the possessor thereof.
			- _**(B) Rate and Basis of the Excise Tax on Imported Articles**_.
				- Unless otherwise specified imported articles shall be subject to the same rates and basis of excise taxes applicable to locally manufactured articles.
		- **SEC. 132.** _Mode of Computing Contents of Cask or Package_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Every fractional part of a proof liter equal to or greater than a half liter in a cask or package containing more than one liter shall be taxed as a liter, and any smaller fractional part shall be exempt; but any package of spirits, the total content of which are less than a proof liter, shall be taxed as one liter.
- ### CHAPTER II
	- **EXEMPTION OR CONDITIONAL TAX-FREE REMOVAL OF CERTAIN ARTICLES**
		- **SEC. 133.** _Removal of Wines and distilled Spirits for Treatment of Tobacco Leaf_.
		  id:: 6803db75-ef8f-4eaf-b32e-9b60ddab2346
		  collapsed:: true
			- Upon issuance of a permit from the Commissioner and subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, manufacturers of cigars and cigarettes may withdraw from bond, free of excise local and imported wines and distilled spirits in specific quantities and grades for use in the treatment of tobacco leaf to be used in the manufacture of cigars and cigarettes; but such wines and distilled spirits must first be suitably denatured.
		- **SEC. 134.** _Domestic Denatured Alcohol_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Domestic alcohol of not less than one hundred eighty degrees (180O) proof (ninety percent (90%) absolute alcohol) shall, when suitably denatured and rendered unfit for oral intake, be exempt from the excise tax prescribed in Section 141: Provided, however, That such denatured alcohol shall be subject to tax under Section 106(A) of this Code: Provided, further, That if such alcohol is to be used for motive power, it shall be taxed under Section 148(d) of this Code: Provided, finally, That any alcohol, previously rendered unfit for oral intake after denaturing but subsequently rendered fit or oral intake after undergoing fermentation, dilution, purification, mixture or any other similar process shall be taxed under Section 141 of this Code and such tax shall be paid by the person in possession of such reprocessed spirits.
		- **SEC. 135.** _Petroleum Products Sold to International Carriers and Exempt Entities or Agencies_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Petroleum products sold to the following are exempt from excise tax:
			  collapsed:: true
				- (a) International carriers of Philippine or foreign registry on their use or consumption outside the Philippines: Provided, That the petroleum products sold to these international carriers shall be stored in a bonded storage tank and may be disposed of only in accordance with the rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner;
				- (b) Exempt entities or agencies covered by tax treaties, conventions and other international agreements for their use of consumption: Provided, however, That the country of said foreign international carrier or exempt entities or agencies exempts from similar taxes petroleum products sold to Philippine carriers, entities or agencies; and
				- (c) Entities which are by law exempt from direct and indirect taxes.
		- **SEC. 136.** _Denaturation, Withdrawal and Use of Denatured Alcohol_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Any person who produces, withdraws, sells, transports or knowingly uses, or is in possession of denatured alcohol, or articles containing denatured alcohol in violation of laws or regulations now or hereafter in force pertaining thereto shall be required to pay the corresponding tax, in addition to the penalties provided for under [Title X of this Code.]([[NIRC/TITLE_X]])
		- **SEC. 137.** _Removal of Spirits Under Bond for Rectification_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Spirits requiring rectification may be removed from the place of production to another establishment for the purpose of rectification without prepayment of the excise tax: Provided, That the distiller removing such spirits and the rectifier receiving them shall file with the Commissioner their joint bond conditioned upon the payment by the rectifier of the excise tax due on the rectified alcohol: Provided, further, That in cases where alcohol has already been rectified either by original and continuous distillation or by re-distillation, no loss for rectification and handling shall be allowed and the rectifier thereof shall pay the excise tax due on such losses: Provided, finally, That where a rectifier makes use of spirits upon which the excise tax has not been paid, he shall be liable for the payment of the tax otherwise due thereon.
		- **SEC. 138.** _Removal of Fermented Liquors to Bonded Warehouse_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Any brewer may remove or transport from his brewery or other place of manufacture to a bonded warehouse used by him exclusively for the storage or sale in bulk of fermented liquors of his own manufacture, any quantity of such fermented liquors, not less than one thousand (1,000) liters at one removal, without prepayment of the tax thereon under a permit which shall be granted by the Commissioner. Such permit shall be affixed to every package so removed and shall be cancelled or destroyed in such manner as the Commissioner may prescribe. Thereafter, the manufacturer of such fermented liquors shall pay the tax in the same manner and under the same penalty and liability as when paid at the brewery.
		- **SEC. 139.** _Removal of Damaged Liquors Free of Tax_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- When any fermented liquor has become sour or otherwise damaged so as to be unfit for use as such, brewers may sell and after securing a special permit from the Commissioner, under such conditions as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, remove the same without the payment of tax thereon in cask or other packages, distinct from those ordinarily used for fermented liquors, each containing not less than one hundred seventy-five (175) liters with a note of their contents permanently affixed thereon.
		- **SEC. 140.** _Removal of Tobacco Products without Prepayment of Tax_.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Products of tobacco entirely unfit for chewing or smoking may be removed free of tax for agricultural or industrial use, under such conditions as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance. [Stemmed leaf tobacco](((6803db75-397d-4cf3-a4ba-36f2bf6e5e61))), fine-cut shorts, the refuse of fine-cut chewing tobacco, scraps, cuttings, clippings, stems, or midribs, and sweepings of tobacco may be sold in bulk as raw material by one manufacturer directly to another without payment of the tax, under such conditions as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Finance.
			- *'Stemmed leaf tobacco,'* as herein used, means leaf tobacco which has had the stem or midrib removed. The term does not include broken leaf tobacco.
			  id:: 6803db75-397d-4cf3-a4ba-36f2bf6e5e61
- ### CHAPTER III
	- **EXCISE TAX ON ALCOHOL PRODUCTS**
	- **SEC. 141.** _Distilled Spirits_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332))) On distilled spirits, subject to the provisions of [Section 133](((6803db75-ef8f-4eaf-b32e-9b60ddab2346))) of this Code, an excise tax shall be levied, assessed and collected based on the following schedules:
		  collapsed:: true
			- (A) Effective January 1, 2020
			  collapsed:: true
				- (1) An ad valorem tax equivalent to twenty-two percent (22%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per proof; and
				- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, a specific tax of Forty-two pesos (P42.00) per proof liter.
			- (B) Effective January 1, 2021
			  collapsed:: true
				- (1) An ad valorem equivalent to twenty-two percent (22%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per proof; and
				- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, a specific tax of Forty-two pesos (P47.00) per proof liter.
			- (C) Effective January 1, 2022
			  collapsed:: true
				- (1) An ad valorem equivalent to twenty-two percent (22%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per proof; and
				- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, the specific tax of Fifty-two pesos (P52.00) per proof liter.
			- (D) Effective January 1, 2023
			  collapsed:: true
				- (1) An ad valorem equivalent to twenty-two percent (22%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per proof; and
				- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, the specific tax of Fifty-nine pesos (P59.00) per proof liter.
			- (E) Effective January 1, 2024
			  collapsed:: true
				- (1) An ad valorem equivalent to twenty-two percent (22%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per proof; and
				- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, the specific tax of Sixty-six pesos (P66.00) per proof liter.
			- (F) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, the specific tax imposed under this Section shall be increased by six percent (6%) every year thereafter, effective January 1, 2025, through revenue regulations to be issued by the Secretary of Finance.
			- Medicinal preparations, flavoring extracts, and all other preparations, except toilet preparations, of which, excluding water, distilled spirits form the chief ingredient, shall be subject to the same tax as such chief ingredient.
			- This tax shall be proportionally increased for any strength of the spirits taxed over proof spirits, and the tax shall attach to this substance as soon as it is in existence as such, whether it be subsequently separated as pure or impure spirits, or transformed into any other substance either in the process of original production or by any subsequent process.
			- '_**Spirits or distilled spirits**_' is the substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine, including all dilutions, purifications and mixtures thereof, from whatever source, by whatever process produced, and shall include whisky, brandy, rum, gin and vodka, and other similar products or mixtures.
			- '_**Proof spirits**_' is liquor containing one-half (1/2) of its volume of alcohol of a specific gravity of seven thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine thousandths (0.7939) at fifteen degrees centigrade (15˚C). A 'proof liter' means a liter of proof spirits.
			- ‘**_Net retail price_**’ shall mean the price at which the distilled spirit is sold on retail in at least five (5) major supermarkets in Metro Manila, excluding the amount intended to cover the applicable excise tax and the value-added tax. For distilled spirits which are marketed outside Metro Manila, the ‘**_net retail price_**’ shall mean the price at which the distilled spirits is sold in at least five (5) major supermarkets in the region excluding the amount intended to cover the applicable excise tax and the value-added tax. This shall initially be validated by the Bureau of Internal Revenue through a price survey.
			  collapsed:: true
				- Major supermarkets , as contemplated under this Act, shall be those with the highest annual gross sales in Metro Manila or the region, as the case may be, as determined by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and shall exclude retail outlets or kiosks, convenience or sari-sari stores, and others of a similar nature: Provided, That no two (2) supermarkets in the list to be surveyed are affiliated and/or branches of each other: Provided, finally, That in case a particular distilled spirit is not sold in major supermarkets, the price survey can be conducted in retail outlets where said distilled spirit is sold in Metro Manila or the region, as the case maybe, upon determination of the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue.
				- The net retail price shall be determined by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) through a biannual price survey under oath.
				- The methodology and all pertinent documents used in the conduct of the latest price survey shall be submitted to the Congressional Oversight Committee on the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COCCTRP) created under Republic Act No. 8240.
				- Understatement of the suggested net retail price by as much as fifteen percent (15%) of the actual net retail price shall render the manufacturer or importer liable for additional excise tax equivalent to the tax due and difference between the understated suggested net retail price and the actual net retail price.
				- Distilled spirits introduced in the domestic market after the effectivity of this Act shall be initially taxed according to their suggested net retail prices.
			- ‘**_Suggested net retail price_**’ shall mean the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) at which locally manufactured or imported distilled spirits are intended by the manufacturer or importer to be sold on retail in major supermarkets or retail outlets in Metro Manila for those marketed nationwide, and in other regions, for those with regional markets. At the end of three (3) months from the product launch, the Bureau of Internal Revenue shall validate the suggested net retail price of the new brand against the net retail price as defined herein and initially determine the correct tax on a newly introduced distilled spirits. After the end of nine (9) months from such validation, the Bureau of Internal Revenue shall revalidate the initially validated net retail price against the net retail price as of the time of revalidation in order to finally determine the correct tax on a newly introduced distilled spirits.
			  collapsed:: true
				- All distilled spirits existing in the market at the time of the effectivity of this Act shall be taxed according to the tax rates provided above based on the latest price survey of the distilled spirits conducted by the Bureau
				- of Internal Revenue.
				- The methodology and all pertinent documents used in the conduct of the latest price survey shall be submitted to the Congressional Oversight Committee on the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program created under Republic Act No. 8240.
				- Manufacturers and importers of distilled spirits shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every third month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales and removals for each particular brand of distilled spirits sold at his establishment for the three-month period immediately preceding.
				- Any manufacturer or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer or importer of distilled spirits.
				- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
				- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under Section 254 of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
				- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
	- **SEC. 142.** _Wines_.  [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332)))
	  collapsed:: true
		- On wines, there shall be levied, assessed and collected effective on January 1, 2020, an excise tax equivalent to Fifty pesos (P50.00) per liter. The rate of tax imposed under this Section shall be increased by six percent (6%) every year thereafter, effective January 1, 2021, through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
		- Manufacturers and importers of wines shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales and removals for each particular brand of wines sold at his establishment for the three-month period immediately preceding.
		- Any manufacturer or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer or importer of wines.
		- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
		- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under [Section 254](((6803db75-37a0-4192-8db1-151f1c098827))) of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
		- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
	- **Sec. 143.** _Fermented Liquor_.  [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332)))
	  collapsed:: true
		- There shall be levied, assessed and collected an excise tax on beer, lager beer, ale, porter and other fermented liquors regardless if manufactured in factories or sold and brewed at micro-breweries or small establishments such as pubs and restaurants, except tuba, basi, tapuy and similar domestic fermented liquors in accordance with the following schedule:
		  collapsed:: true
			- Effective on January 1, 2020, the tax shall be Thirty-five pesos (P35.00) per liter;
			- Effective on January 1, 2021, the tax shall be Thirty-seven pesos (P37.00) per liter;
			- Effective on January 1, 2022, the tax shall be Thirty-nine pesos (P39.00) per liter;
			- Effective on January 1, 2023, the tax shall be Forty-one pesos (P41.00) per liter; and
			- Effective on January 1, 2024, the tax shall be Forty-three pesos (P43.00) per liter.
			- The rates of tax imposed under this Section shall be increased by six percent (6%) every year thereafter effective on January 1, 2025, through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
			- Every brewer, manufacturer or importer of fermented liquor shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales and removals for each particular brand of fermented liquor sold at his establishment for the three-month period immediately preceding.
			- Any brewer, manufacturer or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his or its permit to engage in business as brewer, manufacturer or importer of fermented liquor.
			- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
			- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under Section 254 of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
			- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
- ### CHAPTER IV
  collapsed:: true
	- **EXCISE TAX ON TOBACCO PRODUCTS**
		- **SEC. 144.** _Tobacco Products, Heated Tobacco Products, and Vapor Products_. [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332)))
		  collapsed:: true
			- There shall be collected an excise tax of One peso and seventy-five centavos (P1.75) effective on January 1, 2013 on each kilogram of the following products of tobacco:
			- _**(A) Tobacco Products**_.
			  collapsed:: true
				- There shall be collected an excise tax of One peso and seventy-five centavos (P1.75) effective on January 1, 2013 on each kilogram of the following products of tobacco:
				  collapsed:: true
					- (a) Tobacco twisted by hand or reduced into a condition to be consumed in any manner other than the ordinary mode of drying and curing;
					- (b) Tobacco prepared or partially prepared with or without the use of any machine or instruments or without being pressed or sweetened except as otherwise provided hereunder; and
					- (c) Fine-cut shorts and refuse, scraps, clippings, cuttings, stems and sweepings of tobacco except as otherwise provided hereunder.
				- Stemmed leaf tobacco, tobacco prepared or partially prepared with or without the use of any machine or instrument or without being pressed or sweetened, fine-cut shorts and refuse, scraps, clippings, cuttings, stems, midribs, and sweepings of tobacco resulting from the handling or stripping of whole leaf tobacco shall be transferred, disposed of, or otherwise sold, without any prepayment of the excise tax herein provided for, if the same are to be exported or to be used in the manufacture of cigars, cigarettes, or other tobacco products on which the excise tax will eventually be paid on the finished product, under such conditions as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner.
				- On tobacco specially prepared for chewing so as to be unsuitable for use in any other manner, on each kilogram, One peso and fifty centavos (P1.50) effective on January 1, 2013.
				- The rates of tax imposed under this Section shall be increased by four percent. (4%) every year thereafter effective on January 1, 2014, through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
				- No tobacco products manufactured in the Philippines and produced for export shall be removed from their place of manufacture or exported without posting of an export bond equivalent to the amount of the excise tax due thereon if sold domestically: _Provided, however,_ That tobacco products for export may be transferred from the place of manufacture to a bonded facility, upon posting of a transfer bond, prior to export.
				- Tobacco products imported into the Philippines and destined for foreign countries shall not be allowed entry without posting a bond equivalent to the amount of customs duty, excise and value-added taxes due thereon if sold domestically.
				- Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales for each particular brand of tobacco products sold for the three-month period immediately preceding.
				- Any manufacturer or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents hi his or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer or importer of cigars or cigarettes.
				- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
				- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under Section 254 of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
				- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
			- _**(B) Heated Tobacco Products.**_ [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332)))
			  collapsed:: true
				- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on heated tobacco products an excise tax at the rate prescribed below:
				  collapsed:: true
					- Effective on January 1, 2020, Twenty-five pesos (P25.00) per pack of twenty (20) units or packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20) units;
					- Effective on January 1, 2021, Twenty-seven pesos and fifty centavos (P27.50) per pack of twenty (20) units or packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20) units;
					- Effective on January 1, 2022, Thirty pesos (P30.00) per pack of twenty (20) units or packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20) units; and
					- Effective on January 1,2023, Thirty-two pesos and fifty centavos (P32.50) per pack of twenty (20) units or packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20) units.
					- The rates of tax imposed under this Subsection, shall be increased by five percent (5%) every year effective on January 1, 2024 through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
					- Heated tobacco products shall only be packed in twenties and other packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20) units.
					- No heated tobacco products manufactured in the Philippines and produced for export shall be removed from their place of manufacture or exported without posting of an export bond equivalent to the amount of the excise tax due thereon if sold domestically: Provided, however, That heated tobacco products for export may be transferred from the place of manufacture to a bonded facility, upon posting of a transfer bond, prior to export.
					- Heated tobacco products imported into the Philippines and destined for foreign countries shall not be allowed entry without posting a bond equivalent to the amount of customs duty, excise and value-added taxes due thereon if sold domestically.
					- Manufacturers, distributors, and importers of heated tobacco products shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales and removals for each particular brand of heated tobacco products sold for the three-month period immediately preceding.
					- Any manufacturer, distributor, or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his/her or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer, distributor, or importer of heated tobacco products.
					- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
					- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under Section 254 of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
					- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he/she shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
					- The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) shall periodically determine and regulate, consistent with evolving medical and scientific studies, the manufacture, importation, sale, packaging, advertising, and distribution of heated tobacco products, including banning the sale to nonsmokers or persons below twenty-one (21) years old.
					- Selling heated tobacco products to persons below twenty-one (21) years old shall he prohibited, and shall be punished with a fine of Ten thousand pesos (P10,000.00) and imprisonment of thirty (30) days.
					- Unit packets and any outside wrapping of heated tobacco products and other similar products shall carry a health warning compliant with Republic Act No. 10643, otherwise known as ‘The Graphic Health Warnings Law’.
					- Manufacturers, distributors, importers, and sellers of heated tobacco products are given a period of eighteen (18) months from the effectivity of the implementing rules and regulations (IRR) of this Act to comply with the requirements under such IRR.
					- Eighteen (18) months after the effectivity of this Act, no person or legal entity shall sell or commercially distribute or display any heated tobacco product without ensuring that the labels and packages, as well as any other container used in displaying the said products meet the requirements under this Act.
					- Any violation of the foregoing provisions on health warnings shall be punishable with the same penalties provided for in Republic Act No. 10643, otherwise known as ‘The Graphic Health Warnings Law’.
					- The Bureau of Internal Revenue is mandated to issue a revenue regulation prescribing the floor price or the minimum price of heated tobacco product taking into account the sum of the excise and value- added taxes as provided herein.
			- **_(C) Vapor Products_**. [(fn36)](((635122de-bd17-4f6f-9871-e0754d3f9332)))
			  collapsed:: true
				- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on vapor products an excise tax at the rates prescribed below:
				  collapsed:: true
					- (1) Nicotine Salt or Salt Nicotine.
					  collapsed:: true
						- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on any liquid substance, regardless of nicotine content, including nicotine-free liquids or any similar product, further classified as nicotine salt or salt nicotine, an excise tax based on the following schedules:
						  collapsed:: true
							- Effective on January 1, 2020, Thirty-seven pesos (P37.00) per milliliter or a fraction thereof;
							- Effective on January 1, 2021, Forty-two pesos (P42.00) per milliliter or a fraction thereof;
							- Effective on January 1, 2022, Forty-seven pesos (P47.00) per- milliliter or a fraction thereof; and
							- Effective on January 1, 2023, Fifty-two pesos (P52.00) per milliliter or a fraction thereof.
						- Provided, That the rates of tax imposed under this Subsection shall be increased by five percent (5%) every year effective on January 1, 2024, through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
					- (2) Conventional 'Freebase' or 'Classic' Nicotine.
					  collapsed:: true
						- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on any liquid substance, regardless of nicotine content, including nicotine-free liquid or any similar product, further classified as conventional 'freebase' or 'classic' nicotine an excise tax based on the following schedules:
						  collapsed:: true
							- Effective on January 1, 2020, Forty-five pesos (P45.00) per ten (10) milliliters or a fraction thereof;
							- Effective on January 1, 2021, Fifty pesos (P50.00) per ten (10) milliliters or a fraction thereof;
							- Effective on. January 1, 2022, Fifty-five pesos (P55.00) per ten (10) milliliters or a fraction thereof; and
							- Effective on January 1, 2023, Sixty pesos (P60.00) per ten (10) milliliters or a fraction thereof.
						- Provided, That the rates of tax imposed under this Subsection shall be increased by five percent (5%) every year effective January 1, 2024, through revenue regulations to be issued by the Secretary of Finance.
				- Manufacturers, distributors, and importers of vapor products shall be required to indicate on the package the actual volume in milliliters of the liquid solutions and gels.
				- No vapor products manufactured in the Philippines and produced for export shall be removed from their place of manufacture or exported without posting of an export bond equivalent to the amount of the excise tax due thereon if sold domestically: Provided, however, That vapor products for export may be transferred from the place of manufacture to a bonded facility, upon posting of a transfer bond, prior to export.
				- Vapor products imported into the Philippines and destined for foreign countries shall not be allowed entry without posting a bond equivalent to the amount of customs duty, excise and value-added taxes due thereon if sold domestically.
				- Manufacturers, distributors, and importers of vapor products shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act, and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales for each particular brand of vapor products sold for the three-month period immediately preceding.
				- Any manufacturer, distributor, or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his/her or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his/her or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer, distributor, or importer of vapor products.
				- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
				- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under [Section 254](((6803db75-37a0-4192-8db1-151f1c098827))) of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
				- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he/she shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.
				- The FDA shall periodically determine and regulate, consistent with evolving medical and scientific studies, the manufacture, importation, sale, packaging, advertising, and distribution of vapor products, including banning the sale to nonsmokers or persons below twenty-one (21) years old, and banning of flavorings.
				- Provided, That vapor products which exceed sixty-five milligrams of nicotine per milliliter (65mg/ml) of liquid or gel, or which does not exceed this limit but seeks to make health claims, shall be subject to additional requirements as the DOH and the FDA may impose: Provided, however, That this shall not diminish the regulatory powers of the FDA over vapor products, regardless of nicotine content.
				- Selling vapor products to persons below twenty-one (21) years old shall be prohibited, and shall be punished with a fine of Ten thousand pesos (P10,000.00) and imprisonment of (30) days.
				- The manufacture, importation, sale and distribution of vapor products with flavoring other than plain tobacco or plain menthol, shall be prohibited.
				- Unit packets and any outside wrapping of vapor products and other similar products shall carry a health warning compliant with Republic Act No. 10643, otherwise known as ‘The Graphic Health Warnings Law’.
				- Manufacturers, distributors, importers, and sellers of vapor products are given a period of eighteen (18) months from the effectivity of the IRR of this Act to comply with the requirements under such IRR.
				- Eighteen (18) months after the effectivity of this Act, no person or legal entity shall sell or commercially distribute or display any vapor product without ensuring that the labels and packages, as well as any other container used in displaying the said products meet the requirements under this Act.
				- Any violation of the foregoing provisions on health warning shall be punishable with the same penalties provided for in Republic Act No. 10643, otherwise known as ‘The Graphic Health Warnings Law’.
				- Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act on heated tobacco products and vapor products, this Act acknowledges the need for further scientific evidence on the health impact of these products.
				- The Bureau of Internal Revenue is mandated to issue a revenue regulation prescribing the floor price or the minimum price of vapor products taking into account the sum of the excise tax and value-added tax as provided herein.
		- **SEC. 145.** _Cigars and Cigarettes_.
			- _**(A) Cigars**_.
				- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on cigars an excise tax in accordance with the following schedule:
					- (1) Effective on January 1, 2013
					- (a) An ad valorem tax equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of the net retail price (excluding the excise tax and the value-added tax) per cigar; and
					- (b) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, a specific tax of Five pesos (P5.00) per cigar.
					- (2) In addition to the ad valorem tax herein imposed, the specific tax rate of Five pesos (₱5.00) imposed under this Subsection shall be increased by five percent (5%) effective on January 1, 2024 [[129](#fn129)] through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
				- ‘**_Net-retail price_**’ shall mean the price at which the cigar is sold on retail in at least five (5) major supermarkets in Metro Manila (for brands of cigar marketed nationally), excluding the amount intended to cover the applicable excise tax and the value-added tax. For cigars which are marketed only outside Metro Manila, the ‘**_net retail price_**’ shall mean the price at which the cigar is sold in at least five (5) major supermarkets in the region excluding the amount intended to cover the applicable excise tax and the value-added tax. This shall be provided by the manufacturer or importer through a sworn statement and shall be validated by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) through a price survey.
				- Major supermarkets, as contemplated under this Act, shall be those with the highest annual gross sales in Metro Manila or the region, as the case may be, as determined by the BIR, and snail exclude retail outlets or kiosks, convenience or sari-sari stores, and others of a similar nature: Provided, That no two (2) supermarkets in the list to be surveyed are affiliated and/or branches of each other: Provided, finally, That in case a particular cigar is not sold in major supermarkets, the price survey can be conducted in retail outlets where said cigar is sold in Metro Manila or the region, as the case may be, upon determination of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
				- The net retail price shall be validated by the BIR through a biannual price survey under oath.
				- The methodology and all pertinent documents used in the conduct of the latest price survey shall be submitted to the Congressional Oversight Committee on the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program created under Republic Act No. 8240.[[130](#fn130)]
			- _**(B) Cigarettes Packed by Hand**_.
				- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on cigarettes packed by hand an excise tax based on the following schedules:
					- Effective on January 1, 2020, Forty-five pesos (₱45.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1, 2021. Fifty pesos (₱50.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1, 2022, Fifty-five pesos (₱55.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1, 2023, Sixty pesos (₱60.00) per pack;[[131](#fn131)]
					- The rates of tax imposed under this Subsection shall be increased by five percent (5%) [[132](#fn132)] every year effective on January 1, 2024,[[133](#fn133)] through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
					- Duly registered cigarettes packed by hand shall only be packed in twenties and other packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20).[[134](#fn134)]
			- ‘**_Cigarettes packed by hand_**’ shall refer to the manner of packaging of cigarette sticks using an individual person’s hands and not through any other means such as a mechanical device, machine or equipment.
			- _**(C) Cigarettes Packed by Machine**_.
				- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on cigarettes packed by machine a tax at the rates prescribed below:
					- Effective on January 1,2020, Forty-five pesos (₱45.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1, 2021, Fifty pesos (₱50.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1. 2022, Fifty-five pesos (₱55.00) per pack;
					- Effective on January 1, 2023, Sixty pesos (₱60.00) per pack;[[135](#fn135)]
				- The rates of tax imposed under this Subsection shall be increased by five percent (5%) [[132](#fn132)] every year effective on January 1, 2024,[[133](#fn133)] through revenue regulations issued by the Secretary of Finance.
				- Duly registered cigarettes packed by machine shall only be packed in twenties and other packaging combinations of not more than twenty (20).
				- Understatement of the suggested net retail price by as much as fifteen percent (15%) of the actual net retail price shall render the manufacturer or importer liable for additional excise tax equivalent to the tax due and difference between the understated suggested net retail price and the actual net retail price.
				- No tobacco products manufactured in the Philippines and produced for export shall be removed from their place of manufacture or exported without posting of an export bond equivalent to the amount of the excise tax due thereon if sold domestically: Provided, however, That tobacco products for export may be transferred from the place of manufacture to a bonded facility, upon posting of a transfer bond, prior to export.
				- Tobacco products imported into the Philippines and destined for foreign countries shall not be allowed entry without posting a bond equivalent to the amount of customs duty, excise and value-added taxes due thereon if sold domestically.
				- Manufacturers and importers of cigars and cigarettes shall, within thirty (30) days from the effectivity of this Act and within the first five (5) days of every month thereafter, submit to the Commissioner a sworn statement of the volume of sales and removals for cigars and/or cigarettes for the three-month period immediately preceding.
				- Any manufacturer or importer who, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in his/her or its sworn statement herein required any pertinent data or information shall, upon final findings by the Commissioner that the violation was committed, be penalized by a summary cancellation or withdrawal of his/her or its permit to engage in business as manufacturer or importer of cigars or cigarettes.
				- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the aggregate amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
				- Selling of tobacco products at a price lower than the combined excise and value-added taxes imposed under the law shall be prohibited. The seller of such products shall be punished with a fine of not less than ten (10) times the amount of excise plus value-added taxes due but not less than Two hundred thousand pesos (₱200:000.00) nor more than Five hundred thousand pesos (500,000.00), and imprisonment of not less than four (4) years but not more than six (6) years.
				- The BIR is mandated to issue a revenue regulation prescribing the cigarette floor price or the minimum cigarette price taking into account the sum of the excise and value-added taxes as provided herein.
				- Any person liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under [Section 254](((6803db75-37a0-4192-8db1-151f1c098827))) of this Code. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
				- If the offender is not a citizen of the Philippines, he/she shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence, without further proceedings for deportation.[[136](#fn136)]
		- **SEC. 146.** _Inspection Fee_.
			- For inspection made in accordance with this Chapter, there shall be collected a fee of Fifty centavos (₱0.50) for each thousand cigars or fraction thereof; Ten centavos (₱0.10) for each thousand cigarettes or fraction thereof; Ten centavos (₱0.10) for each thousand unit of heated tobacco products; One centavo (₱0.01) for each milliliter of liquid used in vapor products;[[137](#fn137)] Two centavos (₱0.02) for each kilogram of leaf tobacco or fraction thereof; and Three centavos (₱0.03) for each kilogram or fraction thereof, of scrap and other manufactured tobacco.
			- The inspection fee on leaf tobacco, scrap, cigars, cigarettes and other tobacco products as defined in [Section 147](((6803db75-14cd-4acb-ba74-cc741a785065))) of this Code shall be paid by the wholesaler, manufacturer, producer, owner or operator of redrying plant, as the case may be, immediately before removal thereof from the establishment of the wholesaler, manufacturer, owner or operator of the re­-drying plant. In case of imported leaf tobacco and products thereof, the inspection fee shall be paid by the importer before removal from customs' custody.
			- Fifty percent (50%) of the tobacco inspection fee shall accrue to the Tobacco Inspection Fund created by Section 12 of Act No. 2613, as amended by Act No. 3179, and fifty percent (50%) shall accrue to the Cultural Center of the Philippines.
		- **SEC. 147.** _Definition of Terms_.
		  id:: 6803db75-14cd-4acb-ba74-cc741a785065
			- When used herein and in statements or official forms prescribed hereunder, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
				- (a) '_**Cigars**_' mean all rolls of tobacco or any substitute thereof, wrapped in leaf tobacco that are consumed via combustion of the tobacco.[[138](#fn138)]
				- (b) '_**Cigarettes**_' mean all rolls of finely-cut leaf tobacco, or any substitute therefor, wrapped in paper or in any other material that are consumed via combustion of the tobacco.[[138](#fn138)]
				- (c) '_**Wholesale price**_' shall mean the amount of money or price paid for cigars or cigarettes purchased for the purpose of resale, regardless of quantity.
				- (d) '_**Retail price**_' shall mean the amount of money or price which an ultimate consumer or end-user pays for cigars or cigarettes purchased.
				- (e) ‘**_Heated tobacco products_**’ refer to tobacco products that may be consumed through heating tobacco, either electrically or through other means sufficiently to release an aerosol that can be inhaled, without burning or any combustion of the tobacco. Heated tobacco products include liquid solutions and gels that are part of the product and are heated to generate an aerosol.[[138](#fn138)]
				- (f) ‘**_Vapor products_**’ shall mean electronic nicotine and non-nicotine delivery systems (ENDS/ENNDS), which are combinations of (i) a liquid solution or gel, that transforms into an aerosol without combustion through the employment of a mechanical or electronic heating element, battery or circuit that can be used to heat such solution or gel, and includes, but is not limited to (ii) a cartridge, (iii) a tank, and (iv) the device without a cartridge or tank. It is commonly known as nicotine salt/salt nicotine, and conventional “freebase” or “classic” nicotine, and other similar products: Provided, That all vapor products shall be covered by this Act regardless of its nicotine content. [[138](#fn138)]
- ### CHAPTER V
  collapsed:: true
	- **EXCISE TAX ON PETROLEUM PRODUCTS**
	- **SEC. 148.** _Manufactured Oils and Other Fuels_.
		- There shall be collected on refined and manufactured mineral oils and motor fuels, the following excise taxes which shall attach to the goods hereunder enumerated as soon as they are in existence as such:
			- Effective January 1, 2018
			  collapsed:: true
				- (a) Lubricating oils and greases, including but not limited to, basestock for lube oils and greases, high vacuum distillates, aromatic extracts, and other similar preparations, and additives for lubricating oils and greases, whether such additives are petroleum based or not, per liter and kilogram respectively, of volume capacity or weight, Eight pesos (P8.00): Provided, That lubricating oils and greases produced from basestocks and additives on which the excise tax has already been paid shall no longer be subject to excise tax: Provided, further, That locally produced or imported oils previously taxed as such but are subsequently reprocessed, re-refined or recycled shall likewise be subject to the tax imposed under this Section. [[139](#fn139)]
				- (b) Processed gas, per liter of volume capacity, Eight pesos (P8.00);[[140](#fn140)]
				- (c) Waxes and petrolatum, per kilogram, Eight pesos (P8.00);[[141](#fn141)]
				- (d) On denatured alcohol to be used for motive power, per liter of volume capacity, Eight pesos (P8.00):[[140](#fn140)] Provided, That unless otherwise provided by special laws, if the denatured alcohol is mixed with gasoline, the excise tax on which has already been paid, only the alcohol content shall be subject to the tax herein prescribed. For purposes of this Subsection, the removal of denatured alcohol of not less than one hundred eighty degrees (180o) proof (ninety percent (90%) absolute alcohol) shall be deemed to have been removed for motive power, unless shown otherwise;
				- (e) Naphtha, regular gasoline, pyrolysis gasoline [[142](#fn142)] and other similar products of distillation, per liter of volume capacity, Seven pesos (P7.00): [[143](#fn143)] Provided, however, That naphtha and pyrolysis gasoline, [[142](#fn142)] when used as a raw material in the reproduction of petrochemical products or in refining of petroleum products, [[142](#fn142)] or as replacement fuel for natural-gas-fired-combined cycle power plant in lieu of locally-extracted natural gas during the non-availability thereof, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance,[[144](#fn144)] per liter of volume capacity, zero (P0.00): Provided, further, That the production of petroleum products, whether or not they are classified as products of distillation and for use solely for the production of gasoline shall be exempt from excise tax:[[142](#fn142)] Provided, finally, That the by-product including fuel oil, diesel fuel, kerosene, pyrolysis gasoline, liquefied petroleum gases and similar oils having more or less the same generating power, which are produced in the processing of naphtha into petrochemical products shall be subject to the applicable excise tax specified in this Section, except when such by-products are transferred to any of the local oil refineries through sale, barter or exchange, for the purpose of further processing or blending into finished products which are subject to excise tax under this Section;
				- (f) Unleaded premium gasoline, per liter of volume capacity, Seven pesos (P7.00);[[145](#fn145)]
				- (g) Aviation turbo jet fuel, aviation gas,,[[142](#fn142)] per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos (P4.00);[[146](#fn146)]
				- (h) Kerosene, per liter of volume capacity, Three pesos (P3.00):[[147](#fn147)] Provided, That kerosene, when used as aviation fuel, shall be subject to the same tax on aviation turbo jet fuel under the preceding paragraph (g), such tax to be assessed on the user thereof;
				- (i) Diesel fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Two pesos and fifty centavos (P2.50);[[147](#fn147)]
				- (j) Liquefied petroleum gas, per kilogram, One peso (P1.00):[[147](#fn147)] Provided, That liquefied petroleum gas when used as raw material in the production of petrochemical products, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, shall be taxed zero (P0.00) per kilogram:[[142](#fn142)] Provided, finally, That liquefied petroleum gas used for motive power shall be taxed at the equivalent rate as the excise tax on diesel fuel oil;
				- (k) Asphalts, per kilogram, Eight pesos (P8.00);[[148](#fn148)]
				- (l) Bunker fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Two pesos and fifty centavos (P2.50):[[147](#fn147)] Provided, however, That the excise taxes paid on the purchased basestock (bunker) used in the manufacture of excisable articles and forming part thereof shall be credited against the excise tax due therefrom;[[142](#fn142)] and
				- (m) Petroleum coke, per metric ton, Two pesos and fifty centavos (P2.50): Provided, however, That, petroleum coke, when used as feedstock to any power generating facility, per metric ton, zero (P0.00).[[142](#fn142)]
			- Effective January 1, 2019[[142](#fn142)]
			  collapsed:: true
				- (a) Lubricating oils and greases, including but not limited to, basestock for lube oils and greases, high vacuum distillates, aromatic extracts, and other similar preparations, and additives for lubricating oils and greases, whether such additives are petroleum based or not, per liter and kilogram respectively, of volume capacity or weight, Nine pesos (P9.00): Provided, That lubricating oils and greases produced from basestocks and additives on which the excise tax has already been paid shall no longer be subject to excise tax: Provided, further, That locally produced or imported oils previously taxed as such but are subsequently reprocessed, re-refined or recycled shall likewise be subject to the tax imposed under this Section.
				- (b) Processed gas, per liter of volume capacity, Nine pesos (P9.00);
				- (c) Waxes and petrolatum, per kilogram, Nine pesos (P9.00);
				- (d) On denatured alcohol to be used for motive power, per liter of volume capacity, Nine pesos (P9.00): Provided, That unless otherwise provided by special laws, if the denatured alcohol is mixed with gasoline, the excise tax on which has already been paid, only the alcohol content shall be subject to the tax herein prescribed. For purposes of this Subsection, the removal of denatured alcohol of not less than one hundred eighty degrees (180o) proof (ninety percent (90%) absolute alcohol) shall be deemed to have been removed for motive power, unless shown otherwise;
				- (e) Naphtha, regular gasoline, pyrolysis gasoline and other similar products of distillation, per liter of volume capacity, Nine pesos (P9.00): Provided, however, That naphtha and pyrolysis gasoline, when used as a raw material in the reproduction of petrochemical products or in refining of petroleum products, or as replacement fuel for natural-gas-fired-combined cycle power plant in lieu of locally-extracted natural gas during the non-availability thereof, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, per liter of volume capacity, zero (P0.00): Provided, further, That the production of petroleum products, whether or not they are classified as products of distillation and for use solely for the production of gasoline shall be exempt from excise tax: Provided, finally, That the by-product including fuel oil, diesel fuel, kerosene, pyrolysis gasoline, liquefied petroleum gases and similar oils having more or less the same generating power, which are produced in the processing of naphtha into petrochemical products shall be subject to the applicable excise tax specified in this Section, except when such by-products are transferred to any of the local oil refineries through sale, barter or exchange, for the purpose of further processing or blending into finished products which are subject to excise tax under this Section;
				- (f) Unleaded premium gasoline, per liter of volume capacity, Nine pesos (P9.00);
				- (g) Aviation turbo jet fuel, aviation gas, per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos (P4.00);
				- (h) Kerosene, per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos (P4.00): Provided, That kerosene, when used as aviation fuel, shall be subject to the same tax on aviation turbo jet fuel under the preceding paragraph (g), such tax to be assessed on the user thereof;
				- (i) Diesel fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos and fifty centavos (P4.50);
				- (j) Liquefied petroleum gas, per kilogram, Two pesos (P2.00): Provided, That liquefied petroleum gas when used as raw material in the production of petrochemical products, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, shall be taxed zero (P0.00) per kilogram: Provided, finally, That liquefied petroleum gas used for motive power shall be taxed at the equivalent rate as the excise tax on diesel fuel oil;
				- (k) Asphalts, per kilogram, Nine pesos (P9.00);
				- (l) Bunker fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos and fifty centavos (P4.50): Provided, however, That the excise taxes paid on the purchased basestock (bunker) used in the manufacture of excisable articles and forming part thereof shall be credited against the excise tax due therefrom; and
				- (m) Petroleum coke, per metric ton, Four pesos and fifty centavos (P4.50): Provided, however, That, petroleum coke, when used as feedstock to any power generating facility, per metric ton, zero (P0.00).
			- Effective January 1, 2020[[149](#fn149)]
			  collapsed:: true
				- (a) Lubricating oils and greases, including but not limited to, basestock for lube oils and greases, high vacuum distillates, aromatic extracts, and other similar preparations, and additives for lubricating oils and greases, whether such additives are petroleum based or not, per liter and kilogram respectively, of volume capacity or weight, Ten pesos (P10.00): Provided, That lubricating oils and greases produced from basestocks and additives on which the excise tax has already been paid shall no longer be subject to excise tax: Provided, further, That locally produced or imported oils previously taxed as such but are subsequently reprocessed, re-refined or recycled shall likewise be subject to the tax imposed under this Section.
				- (b) Processed gas, per liter of volume capacity, Ten pesos (P10.00);
				- (c) Waxes and petrolatum, per kilogram, Ten pesos (P10.00);
				- (d) On denatured alcohol to be used for motive power, per liter of volume capacity, Ten pesos (P10.00): Provided, That unless otherwise provided by special laws, if the denatured alcohol is mixed with gasoline, the excise tax on which has already been paid, only the alcohol content shall be subject to the tax herein prescribed. For purposes of this Subsection, the removal of denatured alcohol of not less than one hundred eighty degrees (180o) proof (ninety percent (90%) absolute alcohol) shall be deemed to have been removed for motive power, unless shown otherwise;
				- (e) Naphtha, regular gasoline, pyrolysis gasoline and other similar products of distillation, per liter of volume capacity, Ten pesos (P10.00): Provided, however, That naphtha and pyrolysis gasoline, when used as a raw material in the reproduction of petrochemical products or in refining of petroleum products, or as replacement fuel for natural-gas-fired-combined cycle power plant in lieu of locally-extracted natural gas during the non-availability thereof, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, per liter of volume capacity, zero (P0.00): Provided, further, That the production of petroleum products, whether or not they are classified as products of distillation and for use solely for the production of gasoline shall be exempt from excise tax: Provided, finally, That the by-product including fuel oil, diesel fuel, kerosene, pyrolysis gasoline, liquefied petroleum gases and similar oils having more or less the same generating power, which are produced in the processing of naphtha into petrochemical products shall be subject to the applicable excise tax specified in this Section, except when such by-products are transferred to any of the local oil refineries through sale, barter or exchange, for the purpose of further processing or blending into finished products which are subject to excise tax under this Section;
				- (f) Unleaded premium gasoline, per liter of volume capacity, Ten pesos (P10.00);
				- (g) Aviation turbo jet fuel, aviation gas, per liter of volume capacity, Four pesos (P4.00);
				- (h) Kerosene, per liter of volume capacity, Five pesos (P5.00): Provided, That kerosene, when used as aviation fuel, shall be subject to the same tax on aviation turbo jet fuel under the preceding paragraph (g), such tax to be assessed on the user thereof;
				- (i) Diesel fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Six pesos (P6.00);
				- (j) Liquefied petroleum gas, per kilogram, Three peso (P3.00): Provided, That liquefied petroleum gas when used as raw material in the production of petrochemical products, subject to the rules and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, shall be taxed zero (P0.00) per kilogram: Provided, finally, That liquefied petroleum gas used for motive power shall be taxed at the equivalent rate as the excise tax on diesel fuel oil;
				- (k) Asphalts, per kilogram, Ten pesos (P10.00);
				- (l) Bunker fuel oil, and on similar fuel oils having more or less the same generating power, per liter of volume capacity, Six pesos (P6.00): Provided, however, That the excise taxes paid on the purchased basestock (bunker) used in the manufacture of excisable articles and forming part thereof shall be credited against the excise tax due therefrom; and
				- (m) Petroleum coke, per metric ton, Six pesos (P6.00): Provided, however, That, petroleum coke, when used as feedstock to any power generating facility, per metric ton, zero (P0.00).
				- [[150](#fn150)] VETOED BY THE PRESIDENT
			- For the period covering 2018 to 2020, the scheduled increase in the excise tax on fuel as imposed in this Section shall be suspended when the average Dubai crude oil price based on Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS) for three (3) months prior to the scheduled increase of the month reaches or exceeds Eighty dollars (USD 80) per barrel.
			- Provided, That the Department of Finance shall perform an annual review of the implementation of the excise tax on fuel and shall, based on projections provided and recommendations of the Development budget coordination Committee, as reconciled from the conditions as provided above, recommend the implementation or suspension of the excise tax on fuel: Provided, further, That the recommendation shall be given on a yearly basis: Provided, finally, That any suspension of the increase in excise tax shall not result in any reduction of the excise tax being imposed at the time of the suspension.[[142](#fn142)]
	- **SEC. 148-A.** _Mandatory Marking of ALL Petroleum Products_. [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
		- In accordance with rules and regulations to be issued by the Secretary of Finance, in consultation with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and Commissioner of Customs and in coordination with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Finance shall require the use of an official fuel marking or similar technology on petroleum products that are refined, manufactured, or imported into the Philippines, and that are subject to the payment of taxes and duties, such as but not limited to, unleaded premium gasoline, kerosene, and diesel fuel oil after the taxes and duties thereon have been paid. The mandatory marking of all petroleum products shall be in accordance with the following:
			- _**(a) Official Markers**_.
				- There shall be a list of chemical additives and corresponding quantitative ratio as identified by the Secretary of Finance as official fuel markers. The official fuel markers shall be distinct and, to the greatest degree possible, impossible to imitate or replicate: Provided, That the official fuel marker must be unique to the Philippines and that its chemical composition and quantitative ratio must persist for at least three (3) years from their application or administration to the unmarked fuel;
			- _**(b)**_ The person, entity, or taxpayer who owns or enters the petroleum products into the country, or the person to whom the petroleum products are consigned shall cause and accommodate the marking of the petroleum products with the official marking agent;
			- _**(c)**_ Internal revenue or customs officers shall be on site to administer the declaration of the tax and duties imposed on the petroleum products and commence to the application of the fuel marking.
			- _**(d) Absences of Official or Dilution of the Official Market; Presumptions**_.
				- In the event that the petroleum products which do not contain the official marker or which contain the official market but are diluted beyond acceptable percentage approved by the Secretary of Finance are found in the domestic market or in the possession of anyone, or under any situation where said petroleum products are subject to duties and taxes, it shall be presumed that the same were withdrawn with the intention to evade the payment of the taxes and duties due thereon;
			- _**(e)**_ The use of fraudulent marker on the petroleum products shall be considered prima facie evidence that the same have been withdrawn or imported without payment of taxes and duties due thereon;
			- _**(f) Engagement of Fuel Marking Provider**_.
				- The government shall engage only one fuel marking provider who shall, under the supervision and direction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and Customs, be responsible for providing, monitoring, and administering the fuel markers, provide equipment and devices, conduct field and confirmatory tests, and perform such other acts incident or necessary to the proper implementation of the provisions of this Act: Provided, That the fuel marking provider shall provide an end-to-end solution to the Government, including establishment and operation of testing facilities that are certified to ISO 17025;
			- _**(g)**_ All costs pertaining to the procurement of the official markers shall be borne by the refiner. Manufacturer or importer, of petroleum products, as the case may be: Provided, That the government may subsidize the cost of official fuel markers in the first year of implementation;
			- _**(h) Fuel Marking Program Funds**_.
				- In addition to any appropriation to implement this Section and the last paragraph of Section 171 of this Act, fees or charges collected in relation to the fuel marking program may be recorded as trust receipts of the implementing agencies, and shall exclusively disbursed to defray the cost of services or equipment required to fully implement the said program, subject to rules and regulations to be issued by the DOF-DBM-COA permanent committee;
			- _**(i)**_ The marking of petroleum products shall be mandatory within five (5) years from the effectivity of this Act; and
			- _**(j)**_ The term ‘**random field test**’ shall refer to periodic random inspections and test performed to establish qualitative and quantitative positive result of fuel trafficking, which are conducted on fuels found in warehouses, storage tanks, gas stations and other retail outlets, and in such other properties or equipment, including mechanisms of transportation of persons engaged in the sale, delivery, trading, transportation, distribution, or importation of fuel intended for domestic market.
			- The term ‘**confirmatory tests**’ shall refer to the accurate and precise analytical test of the tested unmarked, adulterated, or diluted fuel using a device, tool or equipment which will validate and confirm the result of the field test, that is immediately conducted in an accredited testing facility that is certified to ISO 17025. [[151](#fn151)]
- ### CHAPTER VI
	- **EXCISE TAX ON MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES**
	- **SEC. 149.** _Automobiles_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- There shall be levied, assessed and collected an ad valorem tax on automobiles based on the manufacturer’s or importer’s selling price, net of excise and value-added tax, in accordance with the following schedule:
			- Effective January 1, 2018[[152](#fn152)]
				- | Net manufacturer’s price/importer’s selling                                  | Rate                 |
				- | Up to Six hundred thousand pesos (P600,000)                                  | Four percent (4%)    |
				- | Over Six hundred thousand pesos (P600,000) to One Million pesos (P1,000,000) | Ten percent (10%)    |
				- | Over One million pesos (P1,000,000) to Four Million pesos                    | Twenty percent (20%) |
				- | Over Four Million pesos (P4,000,000)                                         | Fifty percent (50%)  |
				- Provided, That hybrid vehicles shall be subject to fifty percent (50%) of the applicable excise tax rates on automobiles under this Section: Provided, further, That purely electric vehicles and pick-ups shall be exempt from excise tax on automobiles.[[153](#fn153)]
				- As used in this Section
					- _**(a) Automobile**_ shall mean any four (4) or more wheeled motor vehicle regardless of seating capacity, which is propelled by gasoline, diesel, electricity or any other motive power. Provided, That for purposes of this Act, buses, trucks, cargo vans, jeeps/jeepneys [[152](#fn152)] substitutes, single cab chassis and special-purpose vehicles shall not be considered as automobiles.
					- _**(b) Trucks/cargo van**_ shall mean a motor vehicle of any configuration that is exclusively designed for the carriage of goods and with any number of wheels and axles: Provided, that pick-ups shall not be considered as trucks.[[154](#fn154)]
					- _**(c) Jeepney/jeepney[[152](#fn152)]**_ substitutes shall mean as ”**_Philippine jeep or jeepney_**“ which are of the jitney type locally designed and manufactured generally from surplus parts and components. It shall also include jeepney substitutes that are manufactured from brand-new single cab chassis or cowl chassis and locally customized rear body that has continuous sideway row seats with open rear door and without retractable glass windows.
					- _**(d) Bus**_ shall mean a motor vehicle of any configuration with gross vehicle weight of 4.0 tons or more with any number of wheels and axles, which is generally accepted and specifically designed for mass or public transportation.
					- _**(e) Single cab chassis**_ shall mean a motor vehicle with complete engine power train and chassis equipped with a cab that has a maximum of two (2) doors and only one (1) row of seats.
					- _**(f) Special purpose vehicle**_ shall mean a motor vehicle designed for specific applications such as cement mixer, fine truck, boom truck, ambulance and/or medical unit, and off-road vehicles for heavy industries and not for recreational activities.
					- _**(g) Hybrid electric vehicle**_ shall mean a motor vehicle powered by electric energy, with or without provision for off-vehicle charging, in combination with gasoline, diesel or any other motive power. Provided, That, for purposes of this Act, a hybrid electric vehicle must be able to propel itself from a stationary condition using solely electric motor.[[153](#fn153)]
				- _Provided_, That in the case of imported automobiles not for sale, the tax imposed herein shall be based on the total landed value, including transaction value, customs duty and all other charges.
			- Automobiles used exclusively within the Freeport zone shall be exempt from excise tax.
	- **SEC. 150.** _Non-essential Goods_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- There shall be levied, assessed and collected a tax equivalent to twenty-percent (20%) based on the wholesale price or the value of importation used by the Bureau of Customs in determining tariff and customs duties, net of [[excise tax]] and value-added tax, of the following goods:
			- (a) All goods commonly or commercially known as jewelry, whether real or imitation, pearls, precious and semi-precious stones and imitations thereof; goods made of, or ornamented, mounted or fitted with, precious metals or imitations thereof or ivory (not including surgical and dental instruments, silver-plated wares, frames or mountings for spectacles or eyeglasses, and dental gold or gold alloys and other precious metals used in filling, mounting or fitting the teeth); opera glasses and lorgnettes. The term ‘**precious metals**’ shall include platinum, gold, silver and other metals of similar or greater value. The term **‘imitations thereof**‘ shall include platings and alloys of such metals;
			- (b) Perfumes and toilet waters;
			- (c) Yachts and other vessels intended for pleasure or sports.
	- **SEC. 150-A.** _Non-essential Services_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- There shall be levied, assessed, and collected a tax equivalent to five percent (5%) based on the gross receipts derived from the performance of services, net of excise tax and value-added tax, on invasive cosmetic procedures, surgeries, and body enhancements directed solely towards improving, altering, or enhancing the patient’s appearance and do not meaningfully promote the proper function of the body or prevent or treat illness or disease. Provided, That this tax shall not apply to procedures necessary to ameliorate a deformity arising from, or directly related to, a congenital or developmental defect or abnormality, a personal injury resulting from an accident or trauma, or disfiguring disease, tumor, virus or infection: Provided, further, That cases or treatments covered by the National Health Insurance Program shall not be subject to this tax.[[155](#fn155)]
	- **SEC. 150-B.** _Sweetened Beverages_.
	  collapsed:: true
		- _**(A) Rate and Base of Tax**_.
			- Effective January 1, 2018:
				- (1) A tax of Six pesos (P6.00) per liter of volume capacity shall be levied, assessed and collected on sweetened beverages using purely caloric sweeteners, and purely non-caloric sweeteners, or a mix of caloric and non-caloric sweeteners: Provided, further, That this tax rate shall not apply to sweetened beverages using high fructose corn syrup: Provided, further, That sweetened beverages using purely coconut sap sugar and purely steviol glycosides shall be exempt from this tax; and
				- (2) A tax of Twelve pesos (P12.00) per liter of volume capacity shall be levied, assessed, and collected on sweetened beverages using purely high fructose corn syrup or in combination with any caloric or non-caloric sweetener.
		- _**(B) Definition of Terms**_.
			- As used in this Act:
				- (1) _Sweetened beverages_ (SBs) refer to non-alcoholic beverages of any constitution (liquid, powder, or concentrates) that are pre-packaged and sealed in accordance with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standards, that contain caloric and/or non-caloric sweeteners added by the manufacturers, and shall include, but not limited to the following, as described in the Food Category System from Codex Alimentarius Food Category Descriptors(Codex Stan 192-1995, Rev. 2017 or the latest) as adopted by the FDA:
					- (a) Sweetened juice drinks;
					- (b) Sweetened tea;
					- (c) All carbonated beverages;
					- (d) Flavored water;
					- (e) Energy and sports drinks;
					- (f) Other powdered drinks not classified as milk, juice, tea, and coffee;
					- (g) Cereal and grain beverages; and
					- (h) Other non-alcoholic beverages that contain added sugar.
				- (2) _Caloric sweetener_ refers to a substance that is sweet and includes sucrose, fructose, and glucose that produces a certain sweetness;
				- (3) _High fructose corn syrup_ refers to a sweet saccharide mixture containing fructose and glucose which is derived from corn and added to provide sweetness to beverages, and which includes other similar fructose syrup preparations; and
				- (4) _Non-caloric sweetener_ refers to a substance that are artificially or chemically processed that produces a certain sweetness. These are substances which can be directly added to beverages, such as aspartame, sucralose, saccharin, acesulfame potassium, neotame, cyclmates and other non-nutritive sweeteners approved by the Codex Alimentarius and adopted by the FDA.
		- _**(C) Exclusions**_.
			- The following products, as described in the food category system from Codex Alimentarius Food Category Descriptors (Codex Stan 192-1995, Rev. 2017 or the latest) as adopted by the FDA, as excluded from the scope of this Act:
				- (1) All milk products, including plain milk, infant formula milk, follow-on milk, growing up milk, powdered milk, ready-to-drink milk and flavored milk, fermented milk, soymilk, and flavored soymilk;
				- (2) One Hundred Percent (100%) Natural Fruit Juices – Original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruit, the liquid resulting from the reconstitution of natural fruit juice concentrate, or the liquid resulting from the restoration of water to dehydrated natural fruit juice that do not have added sugar or caloric sweetener;
				- (3) One Hundred Percent (100%) Natural vegetable Juices – Original liquid resulting from the pressing of vegetables, the liquid resulting from the reconstitution of natural vegetables juice concentrate, or the liquid resulting from the restoration of water to dehydrated natural vegetable juice that do not have added sugar or caloric sweetener;
				- (4) Meal Replacement and Medically Indicated Beverages – Any liquid or powder drink/product for oral nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from food or beverages, or as source of necessary nutrition used due to a medical condition and an oral electrolyte solution for infants and children formulated to prevent dehydration due to illness; and
				- (5) Ground coffee, instant soluble coffee, and pre-packaged powdered coffee products.
		- _**(D) Filing of Return and Payment of Excise Tax and Penalty**_.
			- (1) Filing of Return and Payment of Excise Tax on Domestic and Imported Sweetened Beverages.
				- The provision of [Sections 130](((6803db75-7981-4008-8687-8eeb9478f18c))) and [131](((6803db75-80bf-4c95-986d-c2c7b5fc5dbf))) of the NIRC, as appropriate, shall apply to sweetened beverages.
			- (2) Penalty.
				- Upon final findings by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and/or Customs that any manufacturer or importer, in violation of this Section, misdeclares or misrepresents in the sworn statement provided in [Section 130(c)](((6803db75-fec6-4833-b393-d9a47e393392))) of the NIRC, as amended, any pertinent data or information, the penalty of summary cancellation or withdrawal of the permit to engage in business as manufacturer or importer of sweetened beverages as provided under [Section 268](((6803db75-57df-4eac-939e-2171f6956210))) of the NIRC, as amended, shall be imposed.
			- Any corporation, association or partnership liable for any of the acts or omissions in violation of this Section shall be fined treble the amount of deficiency taxes, surcharges, and interest which may be assessed pursuant to this Section.
			- Any persons liable for any of the acts or omissions prohibited under this Section shall be criminally liable and penalized under [Section 254](((6803db75-37a0-4192-8db1-151f1c098827))) of the NIRC, as amended. Any person who willfully aids or abets in the commission of any such act or omission shall be criminally liable in the same manner as the principal.
			- If not a citizen of the Philippines, the offender shall be deported immediately after serving the sentence without further proceedings for deportation.
		- _**(E) Specific Responsibility of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)**_.
			- Starting June 1, 2018, the FDA shall require all manufacturers and importers of sweetened beverages covered by this Act to indicate on the label the type of sweetener used, and on sweetened beverages in powder form to indicate on the label the equivalent of each serving per liter of volume capacity.
			- The FDA shall also conduct post-marketing surveillance of the sweetened beverages on display in supermarkets, groceries or retail stores and/or inspection of manufacturing sites to determine compliance with the requirements of this Section. Violations of the provisions of this Act, including but not limited to, mislabeling or misbranding, shall, to the extent applicable, be punishable under existing laws.
		- _**(F) Duty of the Commissioner to Ensure Payment of Taxes**_.
			- It shall be the duty of the Commissioner, among other things, to prescribe a materially unique, secure and nonremovable identifications, such as codes, stamps or other markings, to be firmly and conspicuously affixed on and form part of the label of all excisable sweetened beverages.
			- For this purpose, the abovementioned control measure shall be caused by the Commissioner to be printed with adequate security features to ensure the payment of excise tax on sweetened beverages.
		- _**(G) Review of Implementation of the Sweetened Beverage Tax**_.
			- At the start of the implementation of the sugar sweetened beverage tax and every year thereafter, the Department of Health, Department of Science and Technology, and Department of Finance shall review the impact of these provisions on its health objectives with the view to making recommendations on the tax rate on these beverages.[[156](#fn156)]
- ### CHAPTER VII
  collapsed:: true
	- **EXCISE TAX ON MINERAL PRODUCTS**
	- **SEC. 151.** _Mineral Products_.
	  id:: 6803db75-64ab-4aec-96ac-c08d9ac78168
	  collapsed:: true
		- _**(A) Rates of Tax**_.
			- There shall be levied, assessed and collected on minerals, mineral products and quarry resources, excise tax as follows:
				- (1) On domestic or imported[[157](#fn157)] coal and coke, notwithstanding any incentives granted in any law or special law:
					- Effective January 1, 2018, Fifty pesos (P50.00) per metric ton;[[158](#fn158)]
					- Effective January 1, 2019, One hundred pesos (P100.00) per metric ton;[[159](#fn159)] and
					- Effective January 1, 2020, One hundred fifty pesos (P150.00) per metric ton.[[160](#fn160)]
				- (2) On all nonmetallic minerals and quarry resources, a tax of four percent (4%)[[161](#fn161)] based on the actual market value of the gross output thereof at the time of removal, in the case of those locally extracted or produced; or the value used by the Bureau of Customs in determining tariff and customs duties, net of excise tax and value-added tax, in the case of importation.
					- Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (4) of Subsection (A) of this Section, locally extracted natural gas and liquefied natural gas shall not be subject to the excise tax imposed herein.
				- (3) On all metallic minerals, a tax based on the actual market value of the gross output thereof at the time of removal, in the case of those locally extracted or produced; or the value used by the Bureau of Customs in determining tariff and customs duties, net of excise tax and value-added tax, in the case of importation, in accordance with the following schedule;
					- (a) Copper and other metallic minerals, four percent (4%);[[161](#fn161)]
					- (b) Gold and chromite, four percent (4%).[[161](#fn161)]
				- (4) On indigenous petroleum, a tax of six percent (6%)[[162](#fn162)] of the fair international market price thereof, on the first taxable sale, barter, exchange or such similar transaction, such tax to be paid by the buyer or purchaser before removal from the place of production. The phrase ‘first taxable sale, barter, exchange or similar transaction’ means the transfer of indigenous petroleum in its original state to a first taxable transferee. The fair international market price shall be determined in consultation with an appropriate government agency;
			- For the purpose of this Subsection, ‘indigenous petroleum’ shall include locally-extracted mineral oil, hydrocarbon gas, bitumen, crude asphalt, mineral gas and all other similar or naturally associated substances with the exception of coal, peat, bituminous shale and/or stratified mineral deposits.
		- _**(B) For purposes of this Section, the term**_
		  collapsed:: true
			- (1) ‘**_Gross output_**’ shall be interpreted as the actual market value of minerals or mineral products or of bullion from each mine or mineral land operated as a separate entity, without any deduction from mining, milling, refining (including all expenses incurred to prepare the said minerals or mineral products in a marketable state), as well as transporting, handling, marketing or any other expenses: Provided, That if the minerals or mineral products are sold or consigned abroad by the lessee or owner of the mine under C.I.F. terms, the actual cost of ocean freight and insurance shall be deducted: provided, however, That in the case of mineral concentrate, not traded in commodity exchanges in the Philippines or abroad, such as copper concentrate, the actual market value shall be the world price quotations of the refined mineral products content thereof prevailing in the said commodity exchanges, after deducting the smelting, refining and other charges incurred in the process of converting the mineral concentrates into refined metal traded in those commodity exchanges.
			- (2) ‘**_Minerals_**’ shall mean all naturally occurring inorganic substances (found in nature) whether in solid, liquid, gaseous or any intermediate state.
			- (3) ‘**_Mineral products_**’ shall mean things produced and prepared in a marketable state by simple treatment processes such as washing or drying, but without undergoing any chemical change or process or manufacturing by the lessee, concessionaire or owner of mineral lands.
			- (4) ‘**_Quarry resources_**’ shall mean any common stone or other common mineral substances as the Director of the Bureau of Mines and Geo-Sciences may declare to be quarry resources such as, but not restricted to, marl, marble, granite, volcanic cinders, basalt, tuff and rock phosphate: Provided, That they contain no metal or other valuable minerals in economically workable quantities.
		- **_(C) Notwithstanding the foregoing, gold which is sold, or eventually sold, to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas_**, in accordance with [Section 32 (B)(7)(i)](((6803db73-f59e-446d-9c1a-2e2326a8a5b5))), shall be exempt from the payment of excise tax: Provided, however, That if the excise tax due thereon had been paid prior to the sale of gold to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the taxpayer may file a claim for refund or credit with the Commissioner for the excise tax paid.[[163](#fn163)]
- ### CHAPTER VIII
  collapsed:: true
	- **ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS REGULATING BUSINESS OF PERSONS DEALING IN ARTICLES SUBJECT TO EXCISE TAX**
	- **SEC. 152.** _Extent of Supervision Over Establishments Producing Taxable Output_.
		- The BIR has authority to supervise establishments where articles subject to excise tax are made or kept. The Secretary of Finance shall prescribe rules and regulations in which the process of production shall be conducted insofar as may be necessary to secure a sanitary output and to safeguard revenue, such rules and regulations to safeguard revenue may allow the appointment of third parties to monitor production and removal processes and volumes, and the exclusion of exciseable goods from duty-free barter transactions. [[164](#fn164)]
	- **SEC. 153.** _Records to be Kept by Manufacturers; Assessment Based Thereon_.
		- Manufacturers of articles subject to excise tax shall keep such records as required by rules and regulations recommended by the Commissioner and approved by the Secretary of Finance, and such records, whether of raw materials received into the factory or of articles produced therein, shall be deemed public and official documents for all purposes.
		- The records of raw materials kept by such manufacturers may be used as evidence by which to determine the amount of excise taxes due from them, and whenever the amounts of raw material received into any factory exceeds the amount of manufactured or partially manufactured products on hand and lawfully removed from the factory, plus waste removed or destroyed, and a reasonable allowance for unavoidable loss in manufacture, the Commissioner may assess and collect the tax due on the products which should have been produced from the excess.
		- The excise tax due on the products as determined and assessed in accordance with this Section shall be payable upon demand or within the period specified therein.
	- **SEC. 154.** _Premises Subject to Approval by Commissioner_.
		- No person shall engage in business as a manufacturer of or dealer in articles subject to excise tax unless the premises upon which the business is to conducted shall have been approved by the Commissioner.
	- **SEC. 155.** _Manufacturers and/or Importers to Provide Themselves with Counting or Metering Devices to Determine Volume of Production and Importation_.
		- Manufacturers of cigarettes, alcoholic products, oil products and other articles subject to excise tax that can be similarly measured shall provide themselves with such necessary number of suitable counting or metering devices to determine as accurately as possible the volume, quantity or number of the articles produced by them under rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner: Provided, That the Department of Finance shall maintain a registry of all petroleum manufacturers and/or importers and the articles being manufactured and/or imported by them: Provided, further, That the Department of Finance shall mandate the creation of a real-time inventory of petroleum articles being manufactured, imported or found in storage depots of such petroleum manufacturers and/or importers: Provided, finally, that importers of finished petroleum products shall also provide themselves with Bureau-accredited metering devices to determine as accurately as possible the volume of petroleum products imported by them.[[165](#fn165)]
		- This requirement shall be complied with before commencement of operations.
	- **SEC. 156.** _Labels and Form of Packages_.
		- All articles of domestic manufacture subject to excise tax and all leaf tobacco shall be put up and prepared by the manufacturer or producer, when removed for sale or consumption, in such packages only and bearing such marks or brand as shall be prescribed in the rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Finance; and goods of similar character imported into the Philippines shall likewise be packed and marked in such a manner as may be required.
	- **SEC. 157.** _Removal of Articles After the Payment of Tax_.
		- When the tax has been paid on articles or products subject to excise tax, the same shall not thereafter be stored or permitted to remain in the distillery, distillery warehouse, bonded warehouse, or other factory or place where produced. However, upon prior permit from the Commissioner, oil refineries and/or companies may store or deposit tax-paid petroleum products and commingle the same with its own manufactured products not yet subjected to excise tax. Imported petroleum products may be allowed to be withdrawn from customs custody without the prepayment of excise tax, which products may be commingled with the tax-paid or bonded products of the importer himself after securing a prior permit from the Commissioner: Provided, That withdrawals shall be taxed and accounted for on a “first-in, first-out’ basis.
	- **SEC. 158.** _Storage of Goods in Internal-revenue Bonded Warehouses_.
		- An internal-revenue bonded warehouse may be maintained in any port of entry for the storing of imported or manufactured goods which are subject to excise tax. The taxes on such goods shall be payable only upon removal from such warehouse and a reasonable charge shall be made for their storage therein. The Commissioner, may, in his discretion, exact a bond to secure the payment of the tax on any goods so stored.
	- **SEC. 159.** _Proof of Exportation; Exporter's Bond_.
		- Exporters of goods that would be subject to excise tax, if sold or removed for consumption in the Philippines, shall submit proof of exportation satisfactory to the Commissioner, and, when the same is deemed necessary, shall be required to give a bond prior to the removal of the goods for shipment, conditioned upon the exportation of the same in good faith.
	- **SEC. 160.** _Manufacturers' and Importers' Bond_.
		- Manufacturers and importers of articles subject to excise tax shall post a bond subject to the following conditions:
		  collapsed:: true
			- _**(A) Initial Bond**_.- In case of initial bond, the amount shall be equal to One Hundred thousand pesos (P100,000): Provided, That if after six (6) months of operation, the amount of initial bond is less than the amount of the total excise tax paid during the period, the amount of the bond shall be adjusted to twice the tax actually paid for the period.
			- _**(B) Bond for the Succeeding Years of Operation**_. - The bonds for the succeeding years of operation shall be based on the actual total excise tax paid during the period the year immediately preceding the year of operation.
		- Such bond shall be conditioned upon faithful compliance, during the time such business is followed, with laws and rules and regulations relating to such business and for the satisfaction of all fines and penalties imposed by this Code.
	- **SEC. 161.** _Records to be Kept by Wholesale Dealers_.
		- Wholesale dealers shall keep records of their purchases and sales or deliveries of articles subject to excise tax, in such form as shall be prescribed in the rules and regulations by the Secretary of Finance. These records and the entire stock of goods subject to tax shall be subject at all times to inspection of internal revenue officers.
	- **SEC. 162.** _Records to be Kept by Dealers in Leaf Tobacco_.
		- Dealers in leaf tobacco shall keep records of the products sold or delivered by them to other persons in such manner as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations by the Secretary of Finance, such records to be at all times subject to inspection of internal revenue officers.
	- **SEC. 163.** _Preservation of Invoices and Stamps_.
		- All dealers whosoever shall preserve, for the period prescribed in Section 235, all official invoices received by them from other dealers or from manufacturers, together with the fractional parts of stamps affixed thereto, if any, and upon demand, shall deliver or transmit the same to any interval revenue officer.
	- **SEC. 164.** _Information to be Given by Manufacturers, Importers, Indentors and Wholesalers of any Apparatus or Mechanical Contrivance Specially for the Manufacture of Articles Subject to Excise Tax and Importers, Indentors, Manufacturers or Sellers of Cigarette Paper in Bobbins, Cigarette Tipping Paper or Cigarette Filter Tips._
	  id:: 631d7215-8231-4004-ab16-89e3f32efff8
		- Manufacturers, indentors, wholesalers and importers of any apparatus or mechanical contrivance specially for the manufacture of articles subject to tax shall, before any such apparatus or mechanical contrivance is removed from the place of manufacture or from the customs house, give written information to the Commissioner as to the nature and capacity of the same, the time when it is to be removed, and the place for which it is destined, as well as the name of the person by whom it is to be used; and such apparatus or mechanical contrivance shall not be set up nor dismantled or transferred without a permit in writing from the Commissioner.
		- "A written permit from the Commissioner for importing, manufacturing or selling of apparatus or mechanical contrivance specially for the manufacture of articles subject to excise tax,[[166](#fn166)] cigarette paper in bobbins or rolls, cigarette tipping paper or cigarette filter tips is required before any person shall engage in the importation, manufacture or sale of the said articles. No permit to sell said articles shall be granted unless the name and address of the prospective buyer is first submitted to the Commissioner and approved by him/her.[[167](#fn167)] Records, showing the stock of the said articles and the disposal thereof by sale of persons with their respective addresses as approved by the Commissioner, shall be kept by the seller, and records, showing stock of said articles and consumption thereof, shall be kept by the buyer, subject to inspection by internal revenue officers."
	- **SEC. 165.** _Establishment of Distillery Warehouse_.
		- Every distiller, when so required by the Commissioner, shall provide at his own expense a warehouse, and shall be situated in and constitute a part of his distillery premises and to be used only for the storage of distilled spirits of his own manufacture until the tax thereon shall have been paid; but no dwelling house shall be used for such purpose. Such warehouse, when approved by the Commissioner, is declared to be a bonded warehouse, and shall be known as a ‘distillery warehouse’.
	- **SEC. 166.** _Custody of Distillery or Distillery Warehouse_.
		- Every distillery or distillery warehouse shall be in the joint custody of the revenue inspector, if one is assigned thereto, and of the proprietor thereof. It shall be kept securely locked, and shall at no time be unlocked or opened or remain unlocked or opened unless in the presence of such revenue inspector or other person who may be designated to act for him as provided by law.
	- **SEC. 167.** _Limitation on Quantity of Spirits Removed from Warehouse_.
		- No distilled spirits shall be removed from any distillery, distillery warehouse, or bonded warehouse in quantities of less than fifteen (15) gauge liters at any one time, except bottled goods, which may be removed by the case of not less than twelve (12) bottles.
	- **SEC. 168.** _Denaturing Within Premises_.
		- For purposes of this Title, the process of denaturing alcohol shall be effected only within the distillery premises where the alcohol to be denatured is produced in accordance with formulas duly approved by the Bureau of Internal Revenue and only in the presence of duly designated representatives of said Bureau.
	- **SEC. 169.** _Recovery of Alcohol for Use in Arts and Industries_.
		- Manufacturers employing processes in which denatured alcohol used in arts and industries is expressed or evaporated from the articles manufactured may, under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Finance, upon recommendation of the Commissioner, be permitted to recover the alcohol so used and restore it again to a condition suitable solely for use in manufacturing processes.
	- **SEC. 170.** _Requirements Governing Rectification and Compounding of Liquors_.
		- Persons engaged in the rectification or compounding of liquors shall, as to the mode of conducting their business and supervision over the same, be subject to all the requirements of law applicable to distilleries: Provided, That where a rectifier makes use of spirits upon which the excise tax has been paid, no further tax shall be collected on any rectified spirits produced exclusively therefrom: Provided, further, That compounders in the manufacture of any intoxicating beverage whatever, shall not be allowed to make use of spirits upon which the excise tax has not been previously paid.
	- **SEC. 171.** _Authority of Internal Revenue Officer in Searching for and Testing Taxable Articles_. [(fn4)](((631a19be-48f2-40f2-9615-be81978dc880)))
		- Any internal revenue officer may, in the discharge of his official duties, enter any house, building or place where articles subject to tax under this Title are produced or kept, or are believed by him upon reasonable grounds to be produced or kept, so far as may be necessary to examine, test, discover or seize the same.
		- He may also stop and search any vehicle or other means of transportation when upon reasonable grounds he believes that the same carries any article on which the excise tax has not been paid.
		- Subject to rules and regulations to be issued by the Secretary of Finance, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or his authorized representatives may conduct periodic random field tests and confirmatory tests on fuel required to be marked under Section 148-A found in warehouses, storage tanks, gas stations and other retails outlets, and in such other properties of persons engaged in the sale, delivery, trading, transportation, distribution, or importation of fuel intended for the domestic market: Provided,
		- (a) Random field testing shall be conducted in the presence of revenue or customs officers, fuel marking provider, and the authorized representative of the owner of the fuel to be tested: Provided, that an employee assigned or working at the place where the random field test is conducted shall be deemed an authorized representative of the owner;
		- (b) All field tests shall be properly filmed or video-taped, and documented; and
		- (c) A sample of the randomly tested fuel shall be immediately obtained by the revenue or customs officer upon discovering that the same is unmarked, adulterated, or diluted:
		- Provided, further, That confirmatory fuel test certificates issued by fuel testing facilities shall be valid for any legal purpose from the date of issue, and shall constitute admissible and conclusive evidence before any court.[[168](#fn168)]
	- **SEC. 172.** _Detention of Package Containing Taxable Articles_.
		- Any revenue officer may detain any package containing or supposed to contain articles subject to excise tax when he has good reason to believe that the lawful tax has not been paid or that the package has been or is being removed in violation of law, and every such package shall be held by such officer in a safe place until it shall be determined whether the property so detained is liable by law to be proceeded against for forfeiture; but such summary detention shall not continue in any case longer than seven (7) days without due process of law or intervention of the officer to whom such detention is to be reported.